MEANING
TO ORDER SO THAT WE CAN BE
TIMELY AND CONSCIOUS
OF EVERYONE'S TIME THIS
AFTERNOON.
JUST THANK YOU TO EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THIS MEETING OF THE
ENTIRE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES.
WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO START
WITH THE ROLL CALL SO DENISE
WILL GO AROUND AND ANNOUNCE TO
YOU AND SO ONCE WILL GO AROUND
AND ANNOUNCE TO YOU AND SO ONCE
YOUR NAME IS CALLED FOLKS, IF
YOU COULD JUST UNMUTED AND THEN
SAY YOUR NAME POSITION AND
WHERE YOU'RE COMING FROM TODAY,
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
OK, ONE SECOND OK.
FIRST THIS MEETING WILL BE
BROADCAST LIVE ON CITY AND
CABLE 16 AT&T CHANNEL NINE NINE
RATHER AND ONLINE AT EIGHT TO
GRAB THAT ON AND WATCH TTN TO
SPEAK IN PUBLIC COMMENT CALL
TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN OR EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE INTERMEETING ID NINE
ONE NINE EIGHT SIX SEVEN THREE
ONE FOUR FIVE FIVE.
THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN THAT
ALEXANDER OK IT'S JUST FOUR
O'CLOCK OK COMMISSIONER BUD IS
ABSENT COUNCIL BECAUSE THE ONE
PRESENT FROM ANN ARBOR MICHIGAN
TUESDAY.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
I AM ZACH DAMAN CHAIRMAN
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
COMING FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> WASHTENAW COUNTY AND AS WELL
AS COMMISSIONER HAWKINS THAT
HERE YET COMMISSIONER POSTA NOT
HERE.
ALDAN OK, MR GOSSAGE PRESIDENT
GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYBODY FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
COMMISSIONER MOZER YES.
>> HELLO COMMISSIONER KEN LENOS
THEY'RE CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> COMMISSIONER TAYLOR AND THAT
IS VICE CHAIR TAYLOR, VICE
CHAIR COMMISSIONER KEELER
CALLING FOR IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN COMMISSIONER SEIDELMAN
MATTHEW SOLOMON AND ARBOR,
MICHIGAN WASHTENAW COUNTY USSI
COMMISSIONER, THANK YOU.
I HAVE COME OUR COMMISSIONERS
COMING OUT ON SECOND
COMMISSIONER POLSTER
.
>> OK, WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
I AM FORWARD TO THE APPROVAL
OF TODAY'S AGENDA FOR ALL
ATTENDING TODAY.
HOPEFULLY YOU SHOULD HAVE
RECEIVED A CALL WITH THE
MEETING INVITE.
YOU SHOULD HAVE ALSO RECEIVED A
DIGITAL COPY OF TODAY'S AGENDA
FOR REVIEW.
BUT OF COURSE IF YOU HAVE NOT
REVIEWED THIS COPY OF THE
AGENDA MYSELF AND OR DENISE CAN
PROVIDE A COPY OF THE AGENDA
FOR YOU AND PUT IN THE CHAT BUT
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO TAKE A
MOMENT TO GIVE TIME TO REVIEW
THIS AGENDA AND IF THERE ARE
ANY CORRECTIONS, EDITS OR
AMENDMENTS TO TODAY'S AGENDA AT
THIS TIME, PLEASE SPEAK UP IF
THERE ARE NOT ANY OF THOSE
THINGS IN TODAY'S AGENDA THEN
WOULD THERE BE A MOTION TO
APPROVE TODAY'S AGENDA?
I'LL MOVE TO PROOF.
>> ALL RIGHT.
OK, LARRY MOVES TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA I HAVE REVIEWED.
I DO NOT SEE ANY EDITS OR
ANYTHING TO BE CORRECTED AS YET
.
IN TODAY'S AGENDA WE HAVE
COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE WHO
SECONDED THE APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA ALL COMMISSIONERS IN
FAVOR OF APPROVING TODAY'S
AGENDA.
PLEASE UNMUTED AND SAY I I I I
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
TODAY'S MEETING AGENDA HAS BEEN
APPROVED ALSO MY CONNECTION IS
RUNNING SLOWLY SO PLEASE DO NOT
THINK I'M BEING ANTISOCIAL BY
TURNING MY CAMERA OFF.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYONE IS ABLE TO HEAR ME
ADEQUATELY ON NEXT WE ARE GOING
TO MOVE DOWN TO OUR NEXT PART
OF THE AGENDA AND I JUST WANT
TO ACKNOWLEDGE ANY PUBLIC
COMMENT IF THERE ARE ANYBODY IF
THERE IS ANYBODY LISTENING AT
THIS TIME THAT A LET DENISE
KNOW SO THAT THEY CAN HAVE
PUBLIC COMMENT AT THIS TIME.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO SPEAK.
DENISE, DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT?
I DON'T HAVE ANYONE AT THE
PRESENT TIME.
OK, THANK DENISE.
OK NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE DOWN
TO OUR SPECIAL PRESENTATION.
>> OH KATHLEEN YOU HAD A
QUESTION I WAS JUST WONDERING
IF WE WERE GOING TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES FROM LAST.
>> I'M GOING TO PUT THAT OUT.
OH, I'M SO SORRY.
>> YES, I SKIPPED OVER THAT AS
I WAS READY TO SAY OK, THANK
PARDON ME FOLKS.
SO I'LL BACK UP TO THE APPROVAL
OF THE MEETING MINUTES FROM
MARCH TWENTY TWENTY THREE ALL
OF YOU AGAIN SHOULD HAVE
APPROVED OR HAVE SEEN THE
MINUTES I SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED
A COPY OF THAT WITHIN THE
AGENDA I'D LIKE TO OPEN IT UP
IF ANYONE HAS REVIEWED THESE
MINUTES AND HAS CORRECTIONS OR
AMENDMENTS TO THE MARCH MEETING
MINUTES PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
MENTION THEM AT THIS TIME IF
NOT I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH THE MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MARCH MOVING
MINUTES FOR THE LAST
STACK I
WILL MOVE TO APPROVE.
OK KATHLEEN I'LL MOVE MOVE.
I SACRAMONE HOPE THAT BEGIN WE
CAN PUT IT ON HERE.
>> SORRY.
NO YOU'RE OK.
YOU'RE OK.
WE CAN PUT DEBBIE ON THERE AS
THIS SECOND I HAVE REVIEWED I
DID NOT SEE ANY INCORRECT ANY
INCORRECT THINGS IN THE MEETING
MINUTES SO ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES MARCH TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MEETING MINUTES IF
IN FAVOR PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY
I I I I OK GRACE PARDON ME FOR
SKIPPING OVER THAT AND THANK
YOU COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ FOR
YOUR ATTENTIVENESS NEXT MOVING
ON TO OUR SPECIAL PRESENTATION
.
I REALLY AM EXCITED TO WELCOME
THIS GENTLEMAN AND I KNOW THAT
COUNCILWOMAN OUR COUNCIL MEMBER
EXCUSE ME EDWIN HAS DONE SOME
GREAT WORK WITH MR. CARPENTER
AS WELL.
SO I'D LIKE TO AT THIS TIME
OPEN THE FLOOR TO MR. MATT
CARPENTER, THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER OF THE RIDE.
>> AND MATT, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR BEING HERE.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIR.
MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION.
IT'S A PLEASURE.
I'M HONORED TO BE INVITED.
I'D LIKE TO TALK TO YOU A
LITTLE BIT TODAY AND REALLY
JUST HAVE A DIALOG.
I'M FLATTERED THAT THE AGENDA
LISTS ME AS A SPECIAL PRESENTER
AND I THINK THAT THAT GIVES ME
MORE CREDIT PROBABLY THAN I
DESERVE.
BUT I WANT TO MAYBE START BY
MAKING SURE BEFORE I START
TALKING THAT I'M ANSWERING YOUR
QUESTION YOU ACTUALLY CARE
ABOUT MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
A QUESTION WAS RAISED HERE AT
THIS BODY MAYBE A COUPLE
OF MONTHS AGO AND THAT QUESTION
WAS HANDED OFF TO COUNCILOR
EDWIN WHO THEN GAVE ME A CALL.
WE HAD A VERY PRODUCTIVE
CONVERSATION.
SHE INVITED ME BACK HERE TO
HEAR THE ANSWER.
ALL YOU COULD HEAR THE ANSWERS
FROM FROM FROM ME AND FROM THE
RIGHT.
SO TO PARAPHRASE AND MR. CHAIR,
YOU AND YOUR COMMISSION CAN
CORRECT ME IF I GET THIS WRONG
AND BECAUSE I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE BEFORE I SAY ANYTHING I'M
ANSWERING THE QUESTION YOU
ACTUALLY CARE ABOUT.
THE QUESTION THAT CAME TO ME
WAS DOES THE RIGHT PLAN TO
BEGIN OFFERING SAME DAY
PARATRANSIT SERVICE ON THE RIDE
SYSTEM AT ANY POINT IN THE
FUTURE?
THIS IS SOMETHING WE HAD DONE
IN THE PAST.
IT STOPPED KIND OF OVER THE
PANDEMIC AND WE HAVEN'T
RESTARTED THAT SAME DAY SERVICE
AND I THINK THAT WAS THE
QUESTION THAT ORIGINATED HERE
AND THEN BOUNCED FROM THE
COUNSELOR TO ME AND BROUGHT ME
BACK TO YOU.
DOES THAT SOUND ABOUT RIGHT AND
MAYBE THE COUNSELOR WOULD WORK
TO WEIGH IN AS WELL?
YEAH, I WANT TO TURN IT OVER TO
THE COMMISSION.
DOES THAT SOUND ABOUT RIGHT OR
IS THERE ANYTHING SPECIFIC THAT
WASN'T MENTIONED?
>> THIS IS ZACK AND YEAH THAT
SOUNDS ABOUT RIGHT IN MY
RECORDS TO I TO EVERYONE ON THE
CALL IF YOU'RE WE WE WEREN'T
SURE IF THAT SERVICE WAS GOING
TO BE CONTINUED AND IF IT WAS
PLANNED TO BE STARTED UP AGAIN
IN THE FUTURE.
NOW IF THERE ARE ANY ADDITIONS
TO THAT QUESTION AT THIS TIME I
WOULD LIKE TO, YOU KNOW,
ENCOURAGE SOME OTHER
COMMISSIONERS TO TO ALSO ADD ON
IF THERE IS ANYTHING ELSE BUT
TO MY RECORDS, MR. CARPENTER
AND THE REST OF THE COMMISSION
THAT THAT IS CORRECT.
>> GOOD THAT SOMETIMES THE
TELEPHONE GAME THINGS CAN GET A
LITTLE GARBLED.
WHAT I MIGHT SUGGEST IF IT'S
OK, MR. CHAIR, IS I'LL JUST
GIVE YOU A DIRECT ANSWER TO
THAT QUESTION AND THEN IF THAT
LEADS TO OTHER QUESTIONS AND A
DIALOG, I'D LOVE TO JUST ENGAGE
WITH YOU FOR AS LONG AS YOU'RE
TOLERATING YOU'RE WONDERFUL.
>> SO I'M SURE MANY OF YOU ON
THE COMMISSION ARE FAMILIAR
WITH THE RIDE WHERE THE PUBLIC
TRANSIT AUTHORITY AND PROVIDER
HERE FOR THE ANN ARBOR
YPSILANTI AREA.
WE ARE ABOUT FIFTY TWO YEARS
OLD AS AN AGENCY.
WE'VE BEEN AROUND
FOR QUITE
SOME TIME.
OUR PARATRANSIT SERVICE WE HAVE
A NUMBER OF SERVICES OBVIOUSLY
MOST PEOPLE ARE FAMILIAR WITH
LARGE BUSSES RUNNING ON
SCHEDULES ON MANY STREETS
AROUND THE REGION BUT WE ALSO
HAVE THE A RIDE SERVICE AND A
RIDE HAS BEEN A PART OF THE
COMMUNITY NOW.
OH AT LEAST SINCE THE AMERICANS
WITH DISABILITIES ACT
OF NINETEEN NINETY AND POSSIBLY
LONGER THAN THAT WE'VE HAD SOME
THAN THAT.
OH YEAH LARRY.
WE'VE HAD SOME SORT OF DEMAND
RESPONSE SERVICE WHICH IS
DIFFERENT THAN THE SCHEDULED
BIG BUSSES.
WE'VE HAD SOME SORT OF DEMAND
RESPONSE SERVICE SPECIFICALLY
FOR PERSONS WITH MOBILITY
CHALLENGES WE'VE HAD THAT I
WOULD GUESS SINCE AT LEAST THE
NINETEEN EIGHTIES MIGHT BE A
LITTLE OLDER THAN THAT EVEN SO
THAT'S SERVICE A RIDE IS IS A
PARATRANSIT SERVICE AND IT'S
GOVERNED BY THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT WHICH PROVIDES
VERY CLEAR LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
FOR HOW THAT SERVICE IS
SUPPOSED TO OPERATE AND WHAT
THE ADA SAYS IS THAT IT IS A
SHARED RIDE PUBLIC TRANSIT
SERVICE.
IT'S NOT IT WAS NEVER INTENDED
AS A TAXI SERVICE.
HOWEVER, FOR MANY YEARS THE
RIDE CONTRACTED WITH LOCAL TAXI
COMPANIES TO PROVIDE THAT
SERVICE.
>> SOME OF YOUR COMMISSIONERS
MAY RECALL THAT NOT TOO LONG TO
GO A LOT OF A RIDE VEHICLES
WERE ACTUALLY SEDANS.
THEY WERE CARS NOT LYFT
EQUIPPED VANS OR SMALL BUSSES.
DOES THAT SOUND FAMILIAR TO ANY
OF YOU?
I SEE IF YOU HAD SMALL MUCH
WITHIN RECENT MEMORY THAT THAT
WAS THE CASE AND THAT ACTUALLY
LEADS INTO ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES THAT WE RECOGNIZED.
I THINK WE REALLY ONLY BECAME
AWARE OF IT AROUND ABOUT TWENTY
EIGHTEEN.
WE'RE STARTING TO TAKE SOME
STEPS TO ADDRESS IT WHEN THE
PANDEMIC HIT WHEN TAXI SERVICES
ARE SORT OF MINGLED WITH A
PARATRANSIT SERVICE, YOU RUN
THE RISK OF TREATING PEOPLE
DIFFERENTLY OF DISPARATE
TREATMENT.
SO JUST TO GET IT KNOWS A
PERSON WITH A WHEELCHAIR CANNOT
EASILY USE A SEDAN.
>> THEY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO USE
THE SEDAN AT ALL.
>> IT WOULD BE ILLEGAL FOR ME
TO TRY TO REQUIRE SOMEONE IN A
WHEELCHAIR TO USE THIS IN AN
THE TAXI COMPANIES THAT WE USED
WERE SORT OF COMINGLING TAXI
CUSTOMERS WITH PARATRANSIT
CUSTOMERS SOMETIMES BECAUSE
THEY OWNED THE SEDANS UNTIL A
FEW YEARS AGO WE DIDN'T OWN OUR
OWN PARATRANSIT VEHICLES WAS A
RELATIVELY RECENT THING SOMEHOW
AND I AND I CONFESS I HAVEN'T
BEEN HERE LONG ENOUGH TO FULLY
UNDERSTAND THE HISTORY AT SOME
POINT WE BEGAN PROVIDING SAME
WELL ADA SAYS PARATRANSIT
SERVICE MUST BE AVAILABLE TO
EVERYONE FIRST COME FIRST SERVE
BASIS INCLUDING ANYONE IN A
WHEELCHAIR.
THEREFORE YOUR VEHICLE MUST BE
ABLE TO CARRY WHEELCHAIRS.
THAT'S A CRITICAL PART OF THE
AT SOME POINT IN THE PAST I
DON'T UNDERSTAND HISTORY
SOMEHOW WE ALSO STARTED
OFFERING SAME DAY SERVICE WITH
THE SEDAN.
NOW THE RIDE SYSTEM HAS SORT
OF A MINIMUM TWENTY FOUR OR
FORTY EIGHT HOUR BOOK ADVANCED
RESERVATION BOOKING SYSTEM AND
THAT'S IN THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT.
BUT THIS SEDAN'S SERVICE DIDN'T
COMPLY WITH THAT.
IT WAS AVAILABLE IN LESS THAN A
DAY ADVANCE BOOKING AND I THINK
THAT'S WHAT WAS THE TERMINATION
OF THIS INITIAL QUESTION IS ARE
YOU BRINGING BACK THE SAME DAY
TRIP, THE SAME DAY TRIP WAS
PROVIDED WITH THOSE SEDAN'S?
WHAT WE REALIZED IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN IS THAT WE MAY HAVE
INADVERTENTLY BEEN TREATING OUR
CUSTOMERS IN A SOMEWHAT
DISCRIMINATORY FASHION.
WE DID NOT OFFER SAME DAY
SERVICE TO PEOPLE IN
WHEELCHAIRS BUT WE DID OFFER IT
TO AMBULATORY PEOPLE WHO COULD
USE A SEDAN THAT WAS NOT WHAT
THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT IS ABOUT THAT IS NOT IN MY
OPINION LEGAL.
IT'S CERTAINLY NOT THE WAY WE
WANT TO TREAT RESIDENTS OF THIS
AREA.
SO WHILE A GREAT MANY
AMBULATORY RESIDENTS AND
CUSTOMERS I THINK ENJOYED THAT
SAME SERVICE, THE SAME
ADVANTAGE PROVIDED TO PEOPLE IN
WHEELCHAIRS AND THEREIN LIES
THE PROBLEM NOW TO PROVIDE THAT
SAME DAY SERVICE FOR FOLKS IN
WHEELCHAIRS WOULD REQUIRE US TO
HAVE THE ENTIRE FLEET TO BE
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE.
AND YOU MAY NOTICE THAT WE HAVE
PHASED OUT THE SEDANS AND WE
ARE EVERYTHING WE RUN NOW
INCLUDING MINIVANS I THINK IS
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE.
BUT THAT SAME DAY SERVICE IS
EXPENSIVE.
I'M JUST GOING TO BE RIGHT UP
FRONT ABOUT IT AND IT'S NOT
REQUIRED BY THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT.
SO UNTIL SUCH TIME AS WE CAN
FIGURE OUT HOW TO PAY TO
PROVIDE THE SAME LEVEL
OF SERVICE TO EVERYONE IN THE
COMMUNITY AND NOT RUN AFOUL
OF DISCRIMINATION LAW, WE'RE
NOT IN A POSITION TO BE ABLE TO
BRING THAT BACK RIGHT NOW WHERE
WE ARE WITH OUR BOARD'S LONG
RANGE PLAN IS CONTINUING TO
COMPLY WITH THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT.
WE HAVE ELIMINATED THE CONCERNS
THAT I'VE ALL JUST SPENT SOME
TIME DISCUSSING AND REALLY
FOCUSING ON MAKING THE TOTALITY
OF THE TRANSIT SYSTEM MUCH,
MUCH BETTER FOR EVERYBODY AND
REALLY THAT IS ABOUT BEEFING UP
THE FIXED ROUTE SYSTEM AND A
LOT OF PEOPLE CAN USE THE FIXED
ROUTE SYSTEM EVEN IF THEY HAVE
SOME SORT OF MOBILITY
LIMITATION.
BUT AS THE FIXED ROUTE SYSTEM
EXPANDS PARTICULARLY FOR THE
HOURS OF OPERATION AND WE ARE
GOING TO BE RUNNING LONGER
HOURS OF OPERATION AND THE NEXT
I THINK IN LATE TWENTY TWENTY
FOR THE MILEAGE WE PASSED A
LITTLE WHILE AGO INCLUDED THAT
AS THOSE HOURS OF OPERATION FOR
THE FIXED ROUTE SERVICE EXPAND
THE ARITE SYSTEM WILL ALSO
EXPAND WITH IT SO FOLKS WILL BE
ABLE TO USE THAT AS WELL.
THE TWO THE TWO SYSTEMS ARE
LEGALLY TIE BART TOGETHER
EXPAND A FIXED ROUTE SYSTEM.
I MUST LEGALLY EXPAND THE
PARATRANSIT SYSTEM AS WELL SO
THAT AUTOMATIC HAPPENS.
SO AS THE FIXED ROUTE SYSTEM
GROWS, THE PARATRANSIT SYSTEM
WILL WILL INCREASE AS WELL IN A
COMMENSURATE WAY.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO COMPLY WITH
THE THE ADA AND ANY OTHER
APPLICABLE LAW BUT AT THIS TIME
WE'RE NOT PLANNING TO BRING
BACK THE SAME DATE SERVICES AND
REALLY THAT'S A COST DRIVEN
THING BECAUSE IF WE DO IT FOR
ONE GROUP WE NEED TO DO IT FOR
EVERYBODY AND THAT'S ONLY FAIR.
SO THAT'S MY DIRECT ANSWER.
I THINK THAT'S THE ANSWER I
GAVE TO COUNCILOR EDWYN AND SHE
THOUGHT IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR ME
TO COME AND MAKE SURE EVERYONE
HEARD ME SAY THAT DIRECTLY.
SO MR CHAIR, I'M HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS OR GO
HOWEVER YOU'D LIKE THE
CONVERSATION.
>> WONDERFUL MATT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FIRST OF ALL
FOR THE DETAILED EXPLANATION
BUT ALSO YOU KNOW FOR YOUR TIME
AND ALSO GIVING A PERSPECTIVE
THAT MAYBE YOU KNOW, OTHERS
WOULDN'T HAVE SEEN.
ONE QUICK QUESTION I DO HAVE
FOR YOU THEN I'LL OPEN IT TO A
COUPLE OF MORE IF YOU DON'T
MIND FOR SOME QUESTIONS.
BUT SO WITH IT BEING A MATTER
OF COST FOR THE SAME DAY, WHAT
WHAT OPTIONS ARE YOU EXPLORING
GOING FORWARD TO TO COVER THAT
COST?
MAKE SURE THAT YOU KNOW, ONCE
THAT THAT SERVICE IS ABLE TO BE
PROVIDED IN A COST EFFECTIVE
WAY?
YOU KNOW WHAT MEASURES ARE YOU
LOOKING AT GOING FORWARD TO
WHERE IT CAN BE FINANCIALLY
SUSTAINABLE FOR YOU?
>> SO TO JUST TO BE TO ANSWER
YOUR QUESTIONS DIRECTLY AS I
CAN, WE DON'T HAVE ANY PLANS AT
THIS TIME TO TRY TO RESTORE
THAT SAME DAY SERVICE.
WE'RE NOT BUDGETING FOR IT.
WE'RE NOT ASKING THE TAXPAYERS
TO INCREASE THE VILLAGE TO PAY
FOR IT.
SO OUR PLAN IS TO MAINTAIN THE
REQUIRED ADR SERVICES
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE AREA AND
EXPAND THEM AS WE EXPAND A
FIXED ROUTE SERVICE.
OTHERWISE THE INTENT IS TO MAKE
A FIXED ROUTE SERVICE AS
ATTRACTIVE AS IT POSSIBLY CAN
BE.
WE CONTINUE TO ALLOW ANYONE WHO
IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE RIDE
SERVICE TO RIDE THE FIXED ROUTE
BUSSES FOR FREE AND THAT'S VERY
INTENTIONAL.
SO WE REALLY THINK THAT THAT'S
THE BEST WAY TO PROVIDE
ACCESSIBILITY AND ACCESS TO
OPPORTUNITY FOR EVERYONE IN THE
COMMUNITY INCLUDING ANYBODY
WITH MOBILITY LIMITATIONS.
HOWEVER, IF SOMEONE'S MOBILITY
LIMITATION MAKES IT IMPOSSIBLE
FOR THEM TO USE THE FIXED ROUTE
SERVICE A RIDE WILL BE THERE.
ADMITTEDLY WE'LL HAVE TO BOOK
IN ADVANCE BUT THAT IS THE
INDUSTRY.
>> NORM, THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE CLARIFICATION
.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS.
I'LL FIRST GO TO COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON AND THEN AFTER THAT
WE'LL GO TO COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE.
>> THANKS FOR THE PRESENTATION.
MY QUESTION IS REALLY ABOUT HOW
THE DETERMINED ACTION HAS MADE
BETWEEN INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR A FREE RIDE LET'S
SAY ON THE CITY BUS VERSUS
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE ELIGIBLE
FOR A RIDE.
AND I'M NOT SURE WHAT THE
CHARGE WOULD BE FOR INDIVIDUALS
WITH DISABILITIES
WHO ARE DOING
ADVANCE NOTICE TRANSPORTATION
THROUGH A RIDE.
IF YOU COULD JUST KIND
OF CLARIFY THAT PICTURE HOW
THAT SYSTEM WORKS AND
SPECIFICALLY WHO'S ELIGIBLE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
GREAT QUESTION.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE FOR A RIDE?
AGAIN, THIS GOES BACK TO THE
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT.
THIS IS ALL WRITTEN OUT AND
PRESCRIBED AT A FEDERAL LEVEL
PARATRANSIT WHEN IT WAS SORT
OF CODIFIED IN NINETEEN NINETY
,CONGRESS MADE A VERY CLEAR
DESCRIPTION OF WHO WOULD BE
ELIGIBLE FOR THIS SERVICE AND
ESSENTIALLY IT WAS FOR ANYONE
WHO IS NOT ABLE TO USE THE
FIXED ROUTE SERVICE DUE TO A
MOBILITY LIMITATION.
SO THE TWO SYSTEMS ARE SUPPOSED
TO WORK AS COMPLEMENTS TO A
FIXED ROUTE SYSTEM IS THERE FOR
ANYONE WHO IS NOT ABLE TO
ACCESS IT FOR EXAMPLE, THEY
CANNOT WALK TO THE NEAREST BUS
STOP LET'S SAY THEY COULD WALK
OR THEY'RE IN A WHEELCHAIR BUT
THERE IS NO SIDEWALK TO GET
THEM TO THE NEAREST BUS STOP.
THERE ARE MANY UNFORTUNATELY
STILL MANY EXAMPLES IN OUR
COMMUNITY WHERE YOU'LL HAVE NO
SIDEWALK OUT OR YOU'LL HAVE A
SIDEWALK AND IT GETS YOU NEXT
TO THE BUS STOP.
BUT THEN THERE'S STILL A STRIP
OF GRASS BETWEEN THE SIDEWALK
AND THE CURB IF THAT KIND
OF PHYSICAL BARRIER PREVENTS
SOMEONE FROM BEING ABLE TO
ACCESS THE FIXED SYSTEM EITHER
AT THE BEGINNING OR THE END
OF THEIR TRIP, THAT'S HOW WE
DETERMINE THEY ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
THE RIGHT SYSTEM.
SO DIFFERENT KINDS OF SO IS
THERE A CLEAR IS THERE AN
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL AT
THE ORIGIN POINT AND
DESTINATION IS SOMEONE'S
MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT SUCH THAT
MAYBE THERE IS AN ACCESSIBLE
PATH OF TRAVEL BUT THEY BECOME
TOO TIRED TOO QUICKLY TO MAKE
IT THERE?
>> THOSE ARE THE SORTS
OF PRACTICAL TESTS THAT THE ADA
REQUIRES.
IT EVEN GOES AS FAR AS FAR AS
TO SAY THERE'S SOMETHING CALLED
CONDITIONAL ELIGIBILITY.
LET'S SAY IT'S WINTER TIME AND
THE BUS STOP IS RIGHT OUTSIDE
YOUR HOUSE.
BUT IN THE WINTER THERE'S SO
MUCH SNOW ON THE SIDEWALK THAT
FOR ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES
YOU CAN'T GET THERE WHEN
THERE'S SNOW ON THE GROUND YOU
BECOME ELIGIBLE WHEN THE SNOW
HAS BEEN CLEARED YOU'RE NO
LONGER ELIGIBLE.
IT CAN GET THAT SPECIFIC AND
THAT'S ALL OF THAT IS CODIFIED
IN THE ADA.
>> SO WE HAVE A SELF REPORT TO
INDIVIDUALS.
>> NO.
SO THAT'S THE ELIGIBILITY
PROCESS, THE CERTIFICATION
PROCESS IS HOW WE DETERMINE
ACCORDING TO THOSE RULES.
SO SOME OF MY COLLEAGUES ARE ON
THE CALL TODAY, TRACY AND
ROBERT AND THEY COULD GO INTO
MORE DETAIL BUT ESSENTIALLY WE
DO A MEANS TEST TO TO TO DOUBLE
CHECK.
I THINK WE ACCEPT SORT
OF DOCTOR'S NOTES FRANKLY AT
THIS POINT IT'S SOMEWHAT OF A
MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL CERTIFIES
THAT SOMEONE IS NOT ABLE TO USE
A FIXED ROBUST THAT'S GOOD
ENOUGH FOR US.
I KNOW OTHER CITIES WITH MUCH
MORE SEVERE BUDGET PRESSURES
SOMETIMES HAVE TO GO SO FAR AS
TO INVITE APPLICANTS TO A
SPECIAL TESTING FACILITY AND
WATCH THEM CLIMB A FLIGHT
OF STAIRS FOR EXAMPLE.
WE DON'T GO THAT FAR.
I THINK WE WILL TAKE A DOCTOR'S
NOTE AS AN ATTESTATION AND YOU
SAID YOU MADE A DISTINCTION
BETWEEN PEOPLE WHO ARE ELIGIBLE
TO RIDE THE CITY BUS FOR FREE
AND INDIVIDUALS WHO WOULD HAVE
TO I ASSUME PAY FOR A RIDE.
WHAT IS THAT CHARGE?
>> SURE.
SO AND AGAIN THE RIDE
PARATRANSIT SYSTEMS UNDER THE
ADA WERE SET UP TO KIND
OF MIRROR A FIXED ROUTE SYSTEM.
SO ADA SAYS THAT TRANSIT
AGENCIES I THINK CAN CHARGE UP
TO DOUBLE THE FIXED ROUTE FARE
TO USE PARATRANSIT AND HERE'S
WHY CONGRESS ALLOWED THAT THE
COST TO CARRY SOMEONE ON THE
BIG BUS IS ABOUT FIVE BUCKS.
THE COST TO CARRY SOMEONE ON
THE PARATRANSIT VEHICLE LAST I
SAW WAS AROUND FORTY DOLLARS
PER TRIP IN EACH CASE AND
THAT'S JUST THE DIFFERENCE
OF ECONOMIES OF SCALE.
THE PARATRANSIT SYSTEM IS
SIMPLY MUCH MORE EXPENSIVE PER
TRIP SO CONGRESS ALLOWED THAT
DIFFERENCE IN THE FARES TO HELP
COMPENSATE FOR THAT HERE.
I THINK WE FOLLOW THAT LAW WITH
OUR OUR FARES FOR A-ROD.
WHAT'S DIFFERENT IN ANN ARBOR?
THIS GETS TO YOUR QUESTION WE
DECIDED TO GO A LITTLE BIT
BEYOND THIS AND THIS IS A
VOLUNTARY DECISION THAT TOOK
MANY YEARS AGO WE DECIDED
ANYONE WHO'S ELIGIBLE FOR A
RIDE IF YOU'VE GONE THROUGH THE
PROCESS AND WE'VE CERTIFIED WE
WILL LET YOU RIDE THE FIXED
ROUTE BUS FOR FREE.
>> THAT'S A LOCAL DECISION THAT
WE'VE MADE LIKE I SAID MANY
YEARS AGO AND I DON'T SEE THAT
CHANGING ANYTIME SOON.
SO IF SOMEONE IS ELIGIBLE FOR A
RIDE AND THEY TAKE IN A ROAD
TRIP THEY WILL NEED TO PAY
WHATEVER THE FARE IS FOR THAT
PARTICULAR TRIP IF THEY CHOOSE
TO MAKE THAT TRIP ON THE
FIXTURE BUS THERE, A RED CARD
WILL ALLOW THEM TO RIDE FOR
FREE.
>> THANKS FOR THAT INFORMATION
.
AND IF THERE'S KIND OF TWO
REASONS FOR THAT ONE IS IS SORT
OF A GOOD CITIZEN THING.
BUT THERE'S ALSO IF I MAY BE
BLUNT, A REAL SELF INTEREST
THERE SIMPLY BECAUSE IT COSTS
US SO MUCH LESS IF SOMEONE
RIDES THE LARGE BUSSES THE
SCHEDULED BUSSES, IT ALLOWS US
TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
PARATRANSIT SERVICE CONTINUES
TO EXIST AND IS EFFECTIVELY
RESERVED FOR PEOPLE WHO REALLY
GENUINELY NEED IT.
AND I THINK THAT'S ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT THINGS ABOUT A
PARATRANSIT SYSTEM.
IT'S A LIFELINE FOR
INDEPENDENCE AND THERE'S ONLY
SO MUCH OF IT TO GO AROUND.
WE ONLY HAVE SO MUCH OF A FLEET
SO WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT IT
CONTINUES TO BE AVAILABLE FOR
THOSE WHO REALLY NEED IT AND
ANYONE WHO CAN CAN USE THE
FIXED ROUTE SYSTEM KIND
OF FREES UP A SPACE FOR SOMEONE
ELSE.
SO THERE'S KIND OF A DOUBLE
DOUBLE THING THERE.
>> I SEE SOME OTHER QUESTIONS.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
RESPONSE TO THAT, MR CARPENTER.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER SOLOMON
FOR YOUR INSIGHTFUL QUESTIONS.
WE'LL OPEN IT UP TO JUST A
COUPLE MORE QUESTIONS AFTER
THIS AND THEN UNFORTUNATELY
WE'LL HAVE TO TO MOVE ON.
BUT I'D LIKE TO NOW CALL ON
COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE AND THEN
WE'LL GO TO COMMISSIONER
GOSSAGE.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER DIAMOND
AND THANK YOU MR CARPENTER FOR
BEING HERE AND GIVING YOUR
EXPLANATIONS TODAY I HAVE A
LEAD UP TO A QUESTION I
REMEMBER PRE PANDEMIC THAT A
RIDE AND TWO THOUSANDS THEY HAD
WAS IT'S THE SPECIAL PAIR
OF TRANSIT BUS AS WELL THAT
PROVIDED SERVICES WHEN THEY'RE
ENTERING ONE OF THE TAXI
COMPANY CONTRACTS AT LEAST
THERE WERE ACCESSIBLE VANS AT
THAT TIME AS WELL.
AND SO I'M KIND OF WONDERING IS
ONE QUESTION IS WHEN THE
DECISION CAME TO SAY, YOU KNOW,
WE CAN'T GO BACK TO SAME DAY
SERVICE BECAUSE IT'S NOT
EQUITABLE AMONG THE GROUP
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE TAKING A WAS
THERE SOME SORT OF AUDIT THAT
HAD THAT HAD OCCURRED THAT LED
YOU TO COME TO THAT DECISION?
WAS THERE A FEDERAL AUDIT OR
INTERNAL AUDIT OR JUST
COMPLAINT AND ALSO IT SOUNDS
LIKE GOING FORWARD AT LEAST FOR
NOW THAT THE THAT RIDE INTENDS
TO HONOR THE LETTER OF THE LAW
VERSUS THE THE SPIRIT OF THE
LAW IN SOME IN SOME FASHION
BECAUSE I KNOW YOU HAD BROUGHT
UP HOW SOME IN SOME WAYS WE DO
GO ABOVE AND BEYOND WHAT OTHER
CITIES IN TRANSPORTATION
AGENCIES DO IN TERMS OF OUR
PARATRANSIT SERVICES.
BUT ON THE OTHER SIDE IS I KNOW
THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
SIDE THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION, ONE OF THEIR
INITIATIVES IS TO GO BEYOND THE
ADA AND GO INTO ACCESSIBILITY
AND THAT INCLUDES PROVIDING
CERTAIN FUNDS FOR ACCESSIBLE
TRANSPORTATION, PARTICULARLY
WITH THE THE BUS RIDE, THE BUS
SERVICES AND MOBILITY SERVICES
AND COMMUNITIES AND SO IS IT
ARE WE ARE WE GOING TO IN THE
FUTURE IF THOSE IF THAT
CONTINUES LOOK TOWARDS USING
SOME OF THAT FUNDING FOR
SERVICES SO I'LL I'LL TRY TO
UNPACK.
YOU HAD SOME THAT'S A LOT
OF YEAH.
>> MAYBE I'LL I'LL I'LL I'LL
TAKE THE MOST DIFFICULT ONE
FIRST IN TERMS OF YOU KNOW
WHETHER WE INTEND TO TRY TO
PROVIDE A HIGHER LEVEL
OF SERVICE FOR EVERY
PARATRANSIT PERSON CAN THAT BE
DONE?
ABSOLUTELY.
IT'S SIMPLY A MATTER OF MONEY
AND THEREIN LIES THE BIT OF THE
CHALLENGE.
IT'S NOT A SMALL AMOUNT
OF MONEY AT FORTY DOLLARS PER
TRIP PARATRANSIT IS A VERY
EXPENSIVE SERVICE PRIOR TO THE
PANDEMIC AND PRIOR TO SOME
OF THESE CHANGES ARRIVED WAS
THE FASTEST GROWING EXPENSE IN
OUR BUDGET AND BECOME A SOURCE
OF CONCERN TO THE BOARD AND AND
SORT OF THE THE COHESION OF THE
BUDGET.
HOWEVER, SINCE THEN WE'VE HAD
WE'VE DONE A LOT OF PUBLIC
INVOLVEMENT.
WE'VE PASSED OR OUR BOARD HAS
ADOPTED A TWENTY FIVE YEAR
TRANSIT PLAN.
WE SPECIFICALLY WENT OUT AND
ASKED A VARIETY OF PEOPLE
AROUND THE COMMUNITY WHAT DO
YOU WANT THE TRANSIT SYSTEM TO
BE IN TWENTY FIVE YEARS WE
DIDN'T HEAR A LOT OF REQUESTS
FOR AUGMENTED PARATRANSIT
SERVICE.
MOST OF THE COMMENTS WE HEARD
WERE ABOUT EXPANSION
OF EXTRUDES SERVICE, A BIGGER
GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT, HIGHER
FREQUENCIES.
SO THAT'S WHAT THE PLANS AND
FRANKLY MILEAGES THAT THE RIDE
HAS SOUGHT SINCE THEN HAVE BEEN
GEARED TOWARDS.
HOWEVER, IF THE COMMUNITY IF
THE COMMUNITY TELLS US THAT
WHAT THEY REALLY WANT IS A
HIGHER LEVEL OF PARATRANSIT
SERVICE, THEN THAT'S JUST A
QUESTION OF MONEY AND CAN WE
GET ENOUGH MONEY TO DO THAT AND
WHERE WOULD THAT MONEY COME
FROM AND FRANKLY DO WE HAVE TO
MAKE ANY DIFFICULT TRADEOFFS IN
ORDER TO AFFORD THAT?
BUT I'M NOT FUNDAMENTALLY
OPPOSED TO IT.
I WOULD NEVER SAY NEVER.
IT'S JUST THE LEVEL OF SERVICE
AND COST DISCUSSION AND I THINK
OUR BOARD WOULD LOOK TO HEAR
FROM THE COMMUNITY AS TO
WHETHER OR NOT THAT IS A HIGH
PRIORITY FOR A LARGE PERCENTAGE
OF THE POPULATION AND IF SO,
HOW WOULD WE DO IT?
SO I'M NOT SAYING NO.
I'M JUST SAYING IT'S NOT ON THE
BOOKS TODAY.
SOME OF YOUR OTHER QUESTIONS IN
TERMS OF SORT OF HOW DID WE
RECOGNIZE THE CHALLENGE WITH
USING SEDAN'S AND THE
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE BUSSES?
THERE WAS NO AUDIT GOING TO BE
DIRECT ABOUT IT.
IT WAS REALLY VISUALLY APPARENT
TO NEW MANAGEMENT AS NEW PEOPLE
CAME IN.
WE HAD SOME GENERATIONAL
TURNOVER ON THE STAFF.
NEW PEOPLE WITH A NEW SET
OF EYES STARTED LOOKING AT
STUFF AND ASKING DIRECT
QUESTIONS HOW IS THIS NOT
DISCRIMINATORY AND THERE REALLY
DIDN'T TURN OUT TO BE AN ANSWER
TO THAT QUESTION.
SO NO AUDIT JUST IMMEDIATELY
OBVIOUS IN TERMS OF THE ELITE.
YES, WE STILL HAVE WHAT WE CALL
THE PARATRANSIT BUS AND THAT IS
YOUR SORT OF STANDARD A RIDE
VEHICLE.
IT'S WHAT WE CALL A CUTAWAY.
IT LOOKS LIKE MAYBE A DELIVERY
TRUCK OR A SHUTTLE VAN.
IT'S USUALLY A FORD E THREE
FIFTY VEHICLE WITH THE
PASSENGER COMPARTMENT ON THE
BACK INSTEAD OF LIKE A PANEL
TRUCK OR SOMETHING.
IT HAS A WHEELCHAIR LIFT OUT
THE SIDE.
THAT IS THE STANDARD
PARATRANSIT VEHICLE IN THE
INDUSTRY AND THAT'S PRIMARILY
WHAT WE HAVE TURNED TO ALTHOUGH
WE DO ALSO HAVE SOME MINIVANS
THAT ARE ALSO WHEELCHAIR LIFT
EQUIPPED.
WHAT WE HAVE PHASED OUT ARE THE
SEDANS AND PART OF THE
IMPORTANT PART OF THAT AS SOME
OF YOU IS THAT PREVIOUSLY THE
FLEET WAS OWNED BY THE
CONTRACTOR BY THE TAXI
COMPANIES AND THAT REALLY TIED
OUR HANDS AS AN AGENCY IF WE
WANTED TO SWITCH CONTRACTORS WE
ALSO HAD TO SUDDENLY GET A
WHOLE NEW FLEET.
NOW WE ARE MUCH MORE IN CONTROL
OF OUR OWN DESTINY IN TERMS
OF FUNDING IF IF THERE ARE
FEDERAL PROGRAMS TO PAY FOR THE
OPERATING COSTS OPERATOR
TRANSIT I WOULD JUMP AT IT
TRADITIONALLY THAT HAS BEEN
SOMETHING THAT COMES OUT OF THE
LOCAL PROPERTY TAX BASE BUT THE
FEDS DO PROVIDE CAPITAL FUNDING
AND WE DO USE FEDERAL FUNDING
TO PAY FOR THE PARATRANSIT
VEHICLES AND SYSTEMS.
THANK YOU MADAM.
I'D LIKE TO QUICKLY MOVE ON TO
JUST A FEW MORE QUESTIONS AND
THEN AFTER THAT FOLKS I WILL
HAVE TO LIMITED FOR TIME.
BUT COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE WILL
GO TO YOU NEXT AND THEN LARRY
KEELER AND THEN WE'LL END IT
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER GARTSIDE.
YOU KNOW, I JUST WANT TO JUMP
IN QUICKLY AND SAY I CAN ALSO
TALK ABOUT SOME OF MY QUESTIONS
OFFLINE AND THEN I CAN I CAN
SHARE WITH ALL OF YOU LATER
WHEN I WHEN I TALK WITH ALL
OF YOU SOME OF MY THOUGHTS SO
THAT WE CAN CONTINUE TO MOVE
FORWARD.
BUT THANK YOU AND THANK YOU MR.
CARPENTER.
>> THIS IS OK ALL RIGHT,
COMMISSIONER, I WAS GOING TO
HOLD MY QUESTION AS WELL SO
THANK YOU.
>> OK OK COMMISSIONER.
MY MIND IS JUST A QUICK COMMENT
A COMMENT OR TWO ACTUALLY AND
THE FIRST ONE IS THAT AT LEAST
SINCE NINETEEN EIGHTY SIX THIS
WAS THE RIDE WITH SHARE AND I
THINK THAT'S WHY YOU'RE GETTING
A LOT OF BACKLASH FROM PEOPLE
THAT HAVE BEEN USED TO USING
THAT AS A SHARE AS AS THEY SAY
THEY SERVICE SINCE NINETEEN
EIGHTY SIX TILL 2018.
SECOND OF ALL I THINK THAT
WITHOUT THE SHARED RIDE I'VE
BEEN I'VE HAD MY NOSE IN A
LITTLE BIT OF TRANSPORTATION
AND I THINK THAT THE ON TIME
PERFORMANCE FOR THEM HAS
INCREASED A LOT BECAUSE THEY
DON'T HAVE THE AS MANY SAME DAY
RIDES TO TRY TO FIT IN AND I
THINK THAT OVERALL WITH ALL THE
ACCESSIBLE VEHICLES THAT IT'S
WORKING QUITE WELL AND I
PERSONALLY HAVE NO COMPLAINTS.
BUT AGAIN I CAN ALSO GRAB THE
LINE BUS.
SO I THINK THAT I THINK IT'S
GOING VERY WELL.
GOOD.
I'M I'M GLAD TO HEAR THAT.
AND MR. CARPENTER IN INCLOSING
FOR THOSE THAT HAVE ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS FOR YOU IN
TERMS OF THIS PARTICULAR
SUBJECT MATTER AND THEN ALSO
POSSIBLY JUST HELPFUL INSIGHT
FOR YOU GOING FORWARD, WOULD IT
BE POSSIBLE FOR US TO JUST
CONTINUE TO HAVE YOU AS A
RESOURCE THAT CAN REACH OUT TO
YOU WITH DIFFERENT QUESTIONS?
ABSOLUTELY AND MORE THAN HAPPY
TO.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF COLLEAGUES
WITH ME HERE ON THE LINE,
ROBERT WILLIAMS AND TRACY BYRD
WHO MANY OF YOU PROBABLY WORKED
WITH OVER THE YEARS.
THEY ARE A GREAT RESOURCES.
THEY UNDERSTAND THE DETAILS
FRANKLY FAR BETTER THAN I DO
AND COULD PROBABLY HELP YOU
VERY QUICKLY.
BUT I AM I WOULD BE HONORED IF
YOU HAVE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS,
FEEL FREE TO DROP ME A LINE.
I WILL GIVE YOU MY EMAIL
ADDRESS.
IT'S MY CARPENTER AT THE RED
DOT ORG PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
AND IF ANYONE EVER HAS A
QUESTION OR THIS COMMISSION
WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS THE
PARATRANSIT SYSTEM FURTHER
SIMPLY DROP.
>> I'M HAPPY TO COME BY ANYTIME
.
>> WONDER IF I KNOW WHERE TO
FIND ALL OF YOU.
LARRY WHERE WE ARE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
I DO APPRECIATE IT.
>> THANK YOU FOR COMING.
YEAH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH MR. CARPENTER
AND WE APPRECIATE YOU AND ALL
THE WORK THAT THE STAFF THAT
THE RIGHT IS DOING TO MAKE SURE
THAT OUR CITY CONTINUES TO STAY
EXCESSIVE OVERALL IN TERMS
OF TRANSIT AND NAVIGATING OUR
GREAT GREAT CITY.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL WITH THAT I'D LIKE TO MOVE
ON TO THE NEXT POINTS IN OUR
AGENDA WHICH I FIRST JUST WANT
TO FIRST OF ALL DO A QUICK
INTRODUCTION.
SOME OF YOU ON THIS MEETING MAY
KNOW THAT WE HAVE SOME NEW
FACES OR A NEW FACE THAT I'D
LIKE TO INTRODUCE.
WE HAVE OUR NEW COMMISSIONER
EVERYONE.
SO PLEASE WELCOME ROSE ROSE,
ANITA RADCLYFFE TO THE
COMMISSION.
SHE'S BEEN EXTREMELY DILIGENT
AND IS VERY, VERY INFORMED AND
I REALLY ADMIRE HER TENACITY
AND JUST, YOU KNOW, ASKING THE
RIGHT QUESTIONS, PAYING
ATTENTION TO WHAT IS BEING
PRESENTED IN THE CITY AND THANK
YOU, MISS RADCLIFFE, FOR YOUR
PATIENCE WITH US.
BUT WE ARE DELIGHTED TO HAVE
YOU AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO
WORKING WITH YOU AND I JUST
WANT TO OPEN UP OPEN IT UP
REALLY QUICK FOR YOU TO MAYBE
JUST SAY A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
YOURSELF WHY YOU WANTED TO JOIN
THE COMMISSION, ANYTHING ELSE
YOU WOULD LIKE TO SAY HI AND
THANK YOU.
BEFORE WE WERE RECORDING I WAS
THINKING THE NEED FOR ALL
OF THE HELP THAT SHE GAVE ME
WHEN I WAS GOING THROUGH THE
APPLICATION PROCESS A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT ME I WAS BORN AND
RAISED HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
I DO HAVE MULTIPLE DISABILITIES
.
I WENT OUT OF STATE TO COLLEGE
AND IN ARIZONA WORKED IN
CALIFORNIA.
MY DEGREE WAS IN EDUCATION.
I WAS A SPECIAL EDUCATION MAJOR
.
I TAUGHT SPECIAL ED.
I WORKED IN INDEPENDENT AND
SUPPORTED LIVING FOR SEVERAL
YEARS.
I WORKED WITHIN IT AS THE
ADMINISTRATOR OF INAPPROPRIATE
CARE FACILITIES.
>> I WORKED AT THE INDEPENDENT
LIVING CENTER FOR SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
I WAS A TRANSITION COORDINATOR
WHICH WAS HELPING PEOPLE WERE
HAD A DISABILITY MOST OF WHOM
WERE UNDER THE AGE OF FIFTY
TRANSITION FROM LIVING IN AN
INSTITUTIONAL SETTING, MOSTLY
SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES BACK
INTO COMMUNITY LIVING.
AND NOW I'M BACK HERE.
I SPENT A LOT OF TIME ASSISTING
MY PARENTS WERE BOTH OLDER AND
SOME HAVE DISABILITIES.
>> MY FATHER IS BLIND AND I
WANTED TO JOIN THE COMMISSION
BECAUSE THERE IS A LOT GOING ON
IN THE CITY.
A LOT OF REALLY I WAS WATCHING
THE COMMISSION MEETINGS AND I
THINK THAT YOU GUYS DO JUST AN
AMAZING JOB OF HELPING TO MAKE
THE CITY MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR
ALL OF US AND I LIKE BOOK AND I
REALLY LIKE THE COMMITMENT TO
THE OF BEING EQUITABLE WHEN IT
COMES TO DISABILITIES AND NOT
HAVING A DISABILITY HIERARCHY.
I THINK THAT THAT'S REALLY
COMMENDABLE AND I DON'T JUST
WANT TO HELP, YOU KNOW, LEAVE
THE CITY A LITTLE BIT BETTER
THAN HOW I HAD IT OR CURRENTLY
HAVE IT FOR OTHER PEOPLE IN THE
FUTURE.
WONDERFUL.
WELL, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
RADCLIFF AND I AM SO GLAD TO
HAVE YOU AND YOU KNOW, I THINK
YOU WILL SERVE AS A GREAT,
GREAT ASSET TO US.
>> SO WELCOME.
>> I WOULD AGREE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
ALL RIGHT.
>> TICKETS TO GET ON THERE AND
THANK HER FOR PATIENCE.
>> I'M GLAD TO HEAR GO.
ABSOLUTELY.
WELL, MOVING ON TO OUR
PRESENTATIONS ASPECT OF THE
AGENDA WE HAVE THE WASHTENAW
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
PHYSICALLY DISABLED AND DEMAND
COVERAGE.
>> WELCOME KATIE.
EVERYBODY EVERYBODY HERE JUST
GOT A COUPLE OF THINGS TO SHARE
WITH YOU TODAY STARTING WITH
SOME EVENTS THAT ARE COMING UP
AT THE LIBRARY AND WE HAVE A
LITTLE EARTH DAY STARTING EVENT
COMING UP ON SATURDAY, APRIL.
TWENTY SECOND FROM THREE TO
FOUR P.M. AT THE TRAVER WOOD
BRANCH.
THIS IS FOR PRETTY MUCH ALL
AGES IT'S PRESCHOOL TO ADULT
AND WILL BE CELEBRATING EARTH
DAY AS THE PERFECT TIME TO
START SOME SEEDS FOR YOUR
GARDEN SHOULD BRING THE WHOLE
FAMILY BRING YOUR FRIENDS AND
YOU'LL LEAVE WITH A PLANT
OF YOUR OWN TO CARE FOR.
>> WE ALSO HAVE A POETRY
READING AND PANEL DISCUSSION
ABOUT BIPOLAR DISORDER CALLED
BEING WITH BIPOLAR COMING UP ON
THURSDAY, MAY 11 FROM SIX TO
SEVEN THIRTY PM PITTSFIELD
BRANCH LOCAL POET JENNIFER
METZKER AND ELLEN STONE WILL
READ POETRY ABOUT THEIR
EXPERIENCES OF BIPOLAR DISORDER
FROM DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES
ADDRESSING STIGMA AND THE
TRAUMA RELATED TO LIVING LIFE
WITH A MENTAL ILLNESS AS WELL
AS CARING FOR THOSE WITH A
MENTAL ILLNESS FOLLOWING THE
POETRY READING MICHIGAN
MEDICINES HYNDE'S SEE PRECHTER
BIPOLAR RESEARCH PROGRAM WILL
HOST A Q&A WITH THE AUDIENCE
ABOUT BIPOLAR DISORDER AND
RESEARCH ADVANCES IN THE FIELD
.
>> AND OF COURSE WE HAVE
VISIONS TWENTY TWENTY THREE
COMING UP SO SAVE THE DATE
PROVISIONS TWENTY TWENTY THREE
TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES FOR THE
BLIND VISUALLY IMPAIRED AND
PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
THIS WILL BE HELD ON WEDNESDAY
JUNE 7TH FROM 11:00 A.M. TO
4:00 P.M. AT THE DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY.
THEY'LL BE MORE INFORMATION
COMING SOON AND YOU CAN ALWAYS
DOES ADELGID PROVISIONS FOR
UPDATES.
WE DID JUST UPDATE THAT PAGE
TODAY AND I'M HAPPY TO WELCOME
BOTH THE ANN ARBOR COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS AND THE
RIDE AS VENDORS THIS YEAR IS A
VISION SO IT'S GOOD TO BE HERE
AND SEE YOU ALL HERE AS USUAL
FOR FOLKS WHO ARE MEETING TO
ORDER MATERIALS, THOSE WHO ARE
BPD PATRONS CAN ORDER
CARTRIDGES WITH BOOKS ON THEM
BY CALLING SEVEN THREE FOUR
THREE TWO SEVEN FOUR TWO TWO
FOUR OR EMAILING W.L. BPD BLOG
AND TO SIGN UP FOR THE BRAILLE
AND AUDIO READING SERVICE BAADE
TO DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS
VISIT AND SBA ARD LLC GOV OR
CALL US AND WE WILL ASSIST WITH
THE APPLICATION AND NOW I'VE
GOT A COUPLE OF NEW BOOKS THAT
YOU CAN FIND ON BAAD.
WE'VE GOT NEWSROOM CONFIDENTIAL
LESSONS AND WORRIES FROM AN INK
STAINED LIFE BY MARGARET
SULLIVAN.
>> SULLIVAN BEGAN HER CAREER AT
THE BUFFALO NEWS WHERE SHE ROSE
FROM SUMMER INTERN TO EDITOR IN
CHIEF AND NEWSROOM CONFIDENTIAL
.
SHE CHRONICLES HER YEARS IN THE
TRENCHES BATTLING SEXISM AND
THROWING ELBOWS IN A HIGHLY
COMPETITIVE NEWSROOM IN TWENTY
TWELVE SULLIVAN WAS APPOINTED
THE PUBLIC EDITOR OF THE NEW
YORK TIMES, THE FIRST WOMAN TO
HOLD THAT IMPORTANT ROLE.
SHE WAS IN THE UNIQUE POSITION
OF ACTING ON BEHALF OF READERS
TO WEIGH THE ACTIONS AND
REPORTING OF THE PAPER'S STAFF
PASSING POTENTIAL LAPSES IN
JUDGMENT, UNETHICAL PRACTICES
AND THORNY JOURNALISTIC ISSUES
.
SULLIVAN RECOUNTS HOW SHE
NAVIGATED THE PAPER'S
CONTROVERSIES FROM HILLARY
CLINTON'S EMAILS TO ELON MUSK'S
ACCUSES ACCUSATIONS
OF UNFAIRNESS TO THE NEED
OF GREATER DIVERSITY IN THE
NEWSROOM WE HAVE THE LIGHT WE
CARRY OVER COMING IN UNCERTAIN
TIMES BY MICHELLE OBAMA.
>> THERE MAY BE NO TIDY
SOLUTIONS OR PITHY ANSWERS TO
LIFE'S BIG CHALLENGES, BUT
MICHELLE OBAMA BELIEVES THAT WE
CAN ALL LOCATE AND LEAN ON A
SET OF TOOLS TO HELP US BETTER
NAVIGATE CHANGE AND REMAIN
STEADY WITH IN FLUX IN THE
LIGHT WE CARRY.
SHE OPENS A FRANK AND HONEST
DIALOG WITH READERS CONSIDERING
THE QUESTIONS MANY OF US
WRESTLE WITH HOW DO WE BUILD
ENDURING AND HONEST
RELATIONSHIPS?
HOW CAN WE DISCOVER STRENGTH
AND COMMUNITY INSIDE OUR
DIFFERENCES?
WHAT TOOLS WE USE TO ADDRESS
FEELINGS OF SELF-DOUBT OR
HELPLESSNESS?
WHAT DO WE DO WHEN IT ALL
STARTS TO FEEL LIKE TOO MUCH?
>> MICHELLE OBAMA OFFERS
READERS A SERIES OF FRESH
STORIES AND INSIGHTFUL
REFLECTIONS ON CHANGE,
CHALLENGE AND POWER INCLUDING
HER BELIEF THAT WHEN WE LIGHT
UP FOR OTHERS WE CAN ILLUMINATE
THE RICHNESS POTENTIAL OF THE
WORLD AROUND US DISCOVERING
DEEPER TRUTHS AND NEW PATHWAYS
FOR PROGRESS.
AND FINALLY, FAIRY TALE BY
STEPHEN KING.
CHARLIE READ LOOKS LIKE A
REGULAR HIGH SCHOOL KID GREAT
AT BASEBALL AND FOOTBALL A
DECENT STUDENT BUT HE CARRIES A
HEAVY LOAD.
HIS MOM WAS KILLED IN A HIT AND
RUN ACCIDENT WHEN HE WAS 10 AND
GRIEF DROVE HIS DAD TO DRINK.
CHARLIE LEARNED HOW TO TAKE
CARE OF HIMSELF AND HIS
DAD WHEN CHARLIE WAS 17 HE
MEETS A DOG NAMED RADAR AND HER
AGING MASTER HOWARD BOWDITCH, A
RECLUSE IN A BIG HOUSE AT THE
TOP OF A BIG HILL WITH A LOCK
SHED IN THE BACKYARD.
SOMETIMES STRANGE SOUNDS EMERGE
FROM IT.
CHARLIE STARTS DOING JOBS FOR
MR. BOWDITCH AND LOSES HIS
HEART TO RADAR.
THEN WHEN BOWDITCH DIES HE
LEAVES CHARLIE A CASSETTE TAPE
TELLING A STORY NO ONE WOULD
BELIEVE.
BUT BOWDITCH KNOWS AND HAS KEPT
SECRET ALL HIS LONG LIFE IS
THAT INSIDE THE SHED AS A
PORTAL TO ANOTHER WORLD AND
THAT IS ALL I HAVE FOR YOU
TODAY.
>> DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS FOR ME?
JUST A QUICK COMMENT, KATIE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
AND I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I'M
VERY EXCITED FOR VISIONS IN
JUNE AND I HOPE EVERYONE IS
EXCITED AND VERY GOOD NEWS TO
HEAR THAT THEY WILL ALSO BE
THERE.
SO WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL STUFF.
THERE IS A QUESTION AND REALLY
QUICK BEFORE I GET TO THE
QUESTION, COMMISSIONER
MOSADDEQ, I JUST WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE COMMISSIONER POSTER
AS WELL AS COMMISSIONER HOPKINS
WHO JOINED US AS WELL.
SO WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT YOU ARE SEEN AND WE'RE
GLAD YOU'RE HERE THIS
AFTERNOON.
SO THANK YOU.
>> KATHLEEN, YOU HAD A QUESTION
FOR KATIE MEYER WAS MORE
OF JUST A COMMENT I WANTED TO
SAY THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THERE WAS THAT LOVELY
ATTACHMENT ON OUR AGENDA SO
THAT WE COULD PREVIEW
EVERYTHING THAT YOU WANTED TO
SHARE AND I JUST FOUND THAT SO
VERY HELPFUL AND I HOPE THAT
IT'S SOMETHING THAT IS
CONTINUED.
>> SO THANK YOU, KATIE, FOR
EVERYTHING.
OH, YOU'RE WELCOME.
AND I THINK THAT'S THANK TO
DENISE AS WELL.
SO THAT'S A SHARED EFFORT.
SO WE'LL KEEP THAT UP.
OK, WE ALSO HAVE VICE CHAIR
KEELER'S HAND UP AS WELL.
>> OH, THANK YOU.
>> OK, LARRY, GO AHEAD.
OH, MY MIND'S JUST TO COMMENT
THAT THAT STEPHEN KING BOOK IS
WONDERFUL.
I JUST AS SOON AS THAT WAS UP I
TOOK IT DOWN AND IT WAS
MODERATELY SCARY.
BUT IF YOU YOU'RE IT'S NOT AS
BAD AS SOME BUT IT'S A VERY
GOOD READ.
>> I AGREE.
I KNEW YOU'D LIKE THAT ONE.
>> YEAH.
OUTSTANDING.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
KATIE AT THIS TIME ALREADY?
WELL, THANK YOU SO MUCH KATIE
AND ALWAYS TO THE WASHTENAW
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
PHYSICALLY DISABLED AND ALL
LIBRARY STAFF.
YOU GUYS DID SUCH A WONDERFUL
JOB SO THANK KATIE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
AND AS ALWAYS, THANKS FOR
HAVING US.
>> WE'LL SEE YOU GUYS LATER.
BYE BYE BYE.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE A REPORT WITH THE
NRA.
WELL, ACTUALLY IT'S THE I'M SO
SORRY.
I'M ABOUT TO BUTCHER THE NAME
AND I KNOW WHAT IT IS.
>> IT'S THE WASHTENAW.
OK, I'M JUST GOING TO SAY THE
HANOVER CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT
LIVING BECAUSE IT'S ON THE
AGENDA.
ALEX, YOU'RE LAUGHING AND I
KNOW WHY BUT HOPEFULLY THEY CAN
TELL US IT'S DISABILITY NETWORK
WASHTENAW WHIFFING LEVINGSTON
WAYNE COUNTY.
THERE WE GO.
>> I REMEMBERED IT ALMOST.
HI JOYCE.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
THAT AFTERNOON EVERYONE WE HAVE
BRANDED FROM ANN ARBOR CENTER
FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING TO
DISABILITY NETWORK.
WATCH IT ON MONROE LEVINGSTON.
>> OUR WEBSITE ADDRESS IS W W W
THAT D AND W M L OR AND OUR
PHONE NUMBER
FOR ACCESS TO ALL
OF THE EVENTS THAT I'M ABOUT TO
ANNOUNCE IS SEVEN THREE FOUR
NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO TWO SEVEN
SEVEN.
THANK YOU FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION.
>> UM SO WE ARE A DISABILITY
ADVOCACY ORGANIZATION THAT
WORKS TOWARD DISABILITY
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
IN THE FIRST EVENT THAT I WANT
TO ANNOUNCE IS NEXT WEEK ON
TUESDAY APRIL TWENTY FIFTH
THERE IS AN OPEN HOUSE AT THE
MONROE DISABILITY NETWORK
OFFICE AT ONE FIVE FIVE ONE
FIVE SOUTH DIXIE HIGHWAY FROM
TEN THIRTY TO ONE THIRTY PM.
THE PURPOSE OF THE OPEN HOUSE
IS TO SHOWCASE PROGRAMS AND
INTRODUCE STAFF TO THE
COMMUNITY.
EVERYONE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
LEARN MORE IS WELCOME TO ATTEND
BUT PLEASE REGISTER IN ADVANCE
ONLINE AT OUR WEBSITE WE ARE IN
THE THROES OF THE DISABILITY
NETWORK FILM FESTIVAL.
THIS IS THE SECOND DAY TO DATE
BOYS TODAY AND TOMORROW ON
APRIL 20TH THE NOTHING ABOUT US
WITHOUT US FILM FESTIVAL WILL
CONTINUE.
THESE ARE SHORT FILMS.
SOME OF THE TITLES ARE CODE OF
THE FREAKS AT TEN O'CLOCK IS
MOVIES LAST ABOUT AN HOUR AND
15 MINUTES.
THE NEXT ONE IS THAT ONE SHOULD
TWO FIFTEEN IT'S A PAIN RAISED
ME NEXT ONE IS TWO THIRTY.
>> THERE'S A DISCUSSION TWO
THIRTY TO THREE THIRTY CURRENT
EVENTS IN IN ADVOCACY AND FROM
THREE THIRTY TO FOUR O'CLOCK
THERE'S A WRAP UP DISCUSSION
OF THE MOVIES THAT HAVE BEEN
SEEN OVER THE PAST THREE DAYS
AND IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN
ATTENDING PLEASE REGISTER ON
THE WEBSITE.
>> THERE IS A TEN WEEK ONE HOUR
PER WEEK COOKING CLASS BEING
PLANNED THAT WILL BEGIN SOON IF
YOU ARE INTERESTED IN
PARTICIPATING LEARNING NEW
COOKING SKILLS, SOCIAL HOUSING
WITH OTHER PEOPLE THAT HAVE
DISABILITIES AND EATING A MEAL
TOGETHER AFTERWARD, PLEASE TAKE
THE WEBSITE TO REGISTER FOR
THAT PARTICIPATION.
THERE IS I THINK A POLL RIGHT
NOW TO GAUGE INTEREST THE NEXT
EVENT IS AN EASY AND FUN AND
ENGAGING THEATER GROUP THAT IS
BEING PLANNED TO BUILD
FRIENDSHIPS AND SHARE YOUR
VOICE.
CLASSES WILL BEGIN MAY THE
FIRST AND FOR MORE INFORMATION
YOU CAN CONTACT ROBYN AND ALL
OF THE EMAILS OR THE PEOPLE
THAT I LIST HERE CAN BE REACHED
BY THEIR FIRST NAME WITH THE AT
DENHA WASHTENAW LONHRO
LOVINGSTON SO D AND W.M. L DOT
THE NEXT EVENT IS ORIO CLUB
HAPPENING THIS FRIDAY WHICH IS
ONE OF MY FAVORITE THAT'S THREE
TO FOUR P.M. IT'S A WAY TO EAT
TOGETHER OR SOMETHING FUN AND
CONNECT AND DISCUSS MAKE
FRIENDS THAT IS THREE TO FOUR
O'CLOCK PM AND IS RUN BY CLAIRE
SPIRIT CLUB IS ON HIGH EIGHTIES
AS OF THIS WEEK UNTIL MAY
SEVENTEEN SPIRIT CLUB IS
INCLUSIVE AND ADAPTIVE FITNESS
AND HAPPENS VIRTUALLY CE MARK
FOR MORE INFORMATION TRIBUTE
TUESDAY GROUP IS RUN BY ROBYN
AND THAT IT HAPPENS ON TUESDAYS
FROM FOUR TO FIVE P.M. THE ARC
PROGRAMING IN PERSON CLASS TAKE
PLACE ONE THIRTY TO THREE
THIRTY IN THE ANN ARBOR OFFICE
ON MONDAYS AND THAT IS RUN BY
CLAIRE.
SHE'S A WONDERFUL ART TEACHER
AND THERE ARE ALSO VIRTUAL
OPTIONS AVAILABLE.
FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE
REGISTER ON THE WEBSITE FOR
THOSE CLASSES BI WEEKLY THE ART
CLASS MEETS IN PERSON AT THE
MONROE OFFICE FROM TWELVE TO
TWO P.M. THE NEXT MEETING
OF THE SPINAL CORD INJURY
SUPPORT GROUP HAPPENS ON
TUESDAY, APRIL 20TH FROM 12:00
TO 1:00 PM.
IT WILL NOW BE HOSTED BY JANINE
J AND N AT THE DENHA W EMELDA
OR THE COW ADVOCACY GROUP MEETS
THE THIRD WEDNESDAY MET TODAY
THE THIRD WEDNESDAY OF THE
MONTH.
THE NEXT MEETING WILL BE IN MAY
FROM 12 TO ONE THIRTY PM FOR
MORE INFORMATION CONTACT ELLIOT
IOT BE YOUR WORLD NAVIGATING
LIFE WITH BLINDNESS AND LOW
VISION RUN BY RENAI JUST A
MOMENT I LOST MY FACE FOLDER
THERE HAPPENS.
CONTACT RENE FOR MORE
INFORMATION PLEASE.
I'M SORRY I LOST MY PLACEHOLDER
.
THAT'S RIGHT.
>> SORRY ECKLES.
THAT'S RENE ACKLES, RIGHT?
YES.
AND THEN THE KARRIEM PARENTS
GROUP WHICH IS PARENTS WITH
DISABILITY IS MEETS ON TUESDAYS
SEVEN TO EIGHT PM.
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
CELESTE OR RENE.
AND FINALLY I'D LIKE TO
ANNOUNCE THAT DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
LIVINGSTON HAS A LONG CLOSET
WITH NO PRESCRIPTION NECESSARY
JUST BASED UPON NEED AND DESIRE
AND YOU CAN CONTACT THE CENTER
AT NINE SEVEN SEVEN THREE FOUR
NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO TWO SEVEN
SEVEN AND ASK FOR CHRISTINA.
HEY ARE Y S T AND A I'M SORRY I
LOST MY INFORMATION I HAD OH
HERE IT IS.
UM THE BLINDNESS SUPPORT GROUP
MEETS THE FIRST WEDNESDAY
OF THE MONTH 12:00 TO 1:00 P.M.
AND IT IS GROUP THAT JOINS
VERIZON AND TOPICS WILL BE
PARTICIPANT DRIVEN AND SESSIONS
POWER GROUP MEMBERS TO EMBRACE
THEIR SELF IDENTITIES AND
INDIVIDUALITY.
PEOPLE WITH A LITTLE VISION
OF STRENGTHENING BELONGING AND
COMMUNITY INCLUSION.
>> WE DISCUSSED NAVIGATING LIFE
AND SHARE RESOURCES, TIPS AND
PERSPECTIVES TO HELP US ENHANCE
THE QUALITY AND AUTONOMY OF OUR
LIVES.
GROUP FACILITATORS ARE
PROFESSIONALS FROM A WIDE
VARIETY OF BACKGROUNDS WHO
EXPERIENCE BLINDNESS OR VISION
LOSS AND ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY
SUPPORT WILL BE AVAILABLE IN
THESE GROUPS SO YOU CAN CONTACT
RENEA OUR E AND E OR MARC MRK
AT DISABILITY NETWORK WASHTENAW
MONROE LIVINGSTON AND THAT
CONCLUDES SEABROOK'S THANK YOU
.
>> ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS?
YEAH THANK YOU SO MUCH JOYCE
AND THANK YOU TO THE DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW, MONROE AND
LIVINGSTON.
I KNEW I COULD GET IT RIGHT AT
LEAST ONCE ON THIS MEETING AND
YEAH THANK YOU ALL.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR JOYCE AT THIS
TIME ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL
THAT YOU GUYS DO ALL THAT YOU
CONTINUE TO OFFER ONE QUICK
QUESTION FOR YOU, JOYCE.
SO WHAT COULD YOU SPECIFY
REALLY QUICK WHAT IS WITHIN
THAT LOAN CLOSET YOU SPEAKING
OF .
>> OH SURE.
THINGS LIKE WHEELCHAIRS, CANES
,DURABLE OTHER DURABLE MEDICAL
EQUIPMENT THINGS SMALL THINGS
NOT THINGS THAT ARE NOT
SOMETHING LIKE A BATHTUB BUT
JUST SMALL PORTABLE ITEMS ARE
RITSCHER TRANSFER BENCH OR SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT WE HAVE IN
STOCK.
>> AWESOME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
DEFINITELY ENCOURAGE EVERYONE
IF YOU CAN MAKE IT TOMORROW TO
SEE SOME OF THOSE FILMMAKERS
FOR THE NOTHING ABOUT US
WITHOUT US FILM FESTIVAL AN
AMAZING PROGRAM AND I THINK
THAT FESTIVAL IS ONLY GOING TO
CONTINUE TO BUILD.
SO IF YOU GUYS CAN REGISTER
TOMORROW.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, JOYCE.
YOU'RE WELCOME, HAVE A GREAT
EVENING.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON, WE HAVE THE PARTNERS
IN ACCESS COMMITTEE REPORT AND
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT BUT LET'S
DO PARTNERS AND ACCESS FIRST SO
WE HAVE THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
COMMITTEE REPORT WITH ALEX AND
RACHEL.
GOOD AFTERNOON AGAIN,
EVERYBODY.
UNFORTUNATELY I GOT MY WIRES
CROSSED A BIT WITH DENISE THE
OTHER WEEK AND I THOUGHT THE
MEETING GOT CANCELED FOR SOME
REASON SO I WAS NOT THERE AT
LEAST I'M NOT SURE IF RACHEL OR
LARRY WAS ABLE TO ATTEND.
IF YOU GUYS HAVE SOME THINGS
YOU WANT TO TOUCH ON THAT WOULD
BE GREAT.
BUT I ALSO HAD A COUPLE
OF TOPICS I JUST WANTED TO
BRING TO THE ATTENTION OF THE
COMMISSION.
BUT IF RACHEL OR LARRY, IF YOU
WANT TO SAY ANYTHING FIRST THAT
WOULD BE FINE.
WELL, I'LL START WITH THAT.
RACHEL CAN GO AND THE COMMUNITY
THING BECAUSE SHE DIDN'T HAVE
THAT YET.
OK, BASICALLY ALL WE TALKED
ABOUT WAS THIS WE ALL I TALKED
ABOUT WAS THE POTENTIAL I'D
LIKE TO AMEND THE BYLAWS IN THE
NEAR FUTURE FOUR IN PARTICULAR
I'D LIKE TO ARTICLE NINE
SECTION THREE WHICH HAS TO DO
WITH RECRUITING AND I FEEL THAT
THE RECRUITING PROCESS IS NOT
WELL UNDERSTOOD AND I'D LIKE TO
WRITE IT INTO THE BYLAWS
BECAUSE ALL THE ALL THE ARTICLE
SAYS IS THAT TO PARAPHRASE IS
THAT THERE WILL BE A RECRUITING
COMMITTEE AT
WHICH WE ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR RECRUITING
PEOPLE ACTIVELY RECRUITING
PEOPLE AND WE JUST IT JUST
GIVES US THE POWER TO GIVE
BROSSETTE TO THE MAYOR AND THE
COMMISSIONER AND I'D LIKE TO
OUTLINE THE PROCESS THAT I'VE
BEEN USING.
I THINK THAT'S IN YOUR PACKAGE
PACKET NOW AND I CAN EITHER
TALK TO THAT MORE RECRUITING.
I CAN TALK TO THAT MORE IN THE
RECRUITING COMMITTEE AND DO
THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE.
THAT'S THAT'S ALL WE TALKED
ABOUT.
WE HAD A MEETING BUT ACTUALLY
WE HELD OFF BECAUSE WE HELD
DOING THINGS LIKE THAT BECAUSE
WE KNEW THAT YOU WERE NOT THERE
AND WE WERE I KNEW YOU HAD SOME
TOPICS AND SO RACHEL AND I JUST
TALKED AND WE TALKED ABOUT THAT
A LITTLE BIT BUT WE DIDN'T COME
TO ANY FIRM DECISIONS.
>> YEAH, THAT WAS I GUESS YOU
COULD GO OUT INTO THE CAN YOU
CAN GO TO THE COMMUNITY SAYING
SURE.
DID YOU GET THE REPORT?
>> YES, I DID.
I DID GET THE REPORT FROM
MELISSA JUST TO ADD TO WHAT
LARRY SAID AS WELL WE FROM
TALKING ABOUT THE PROCESS THAT
LARRY WAS USING RIGHT NOW WITH
RECRUITING WE THOUGHT THAT IT
COULD BE BENEFICIAL TO HAVE
THAT MORE STANDARDIZED BECAUSE
LARRY HAS GREAT INSTITUTIONAL
KNOWLEDGE HAVING BEEN ON THE
COMMISSION FOR SO LONG AND IT'S
JUST REALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE,
YOU KNOW, HAVE THE SAME
PROTOCOL AND IN EACH SITUATION
SO WE'RE DOING A GOOD JOB
RECRUITING.
>> SO THAT IS MY COMMENT ON
THAT.
SO FOR ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE,
THEY HAVE A NEW EPISODE
PREMIERING THIS FRIDAY WHICH IS
APRIL 21ST FOR 30 P.M. ON C10
CHANNEL 16 AND ALSO ON THEIR
YOUTUBE CHANNEL.
THEIR GUESTS WILL BE THE MIND
CENTER IN FARMINGTON HILLS.
>> WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU.
AND YOU KNOW, LARRY, I
COMPLETELY AGREE WITH YOU.
WE'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO BE
ADDRESSING THAT RECRUITING
COMMITTEE LATER IN THE AGENDA.
BUT IF YOU ALSO WANT TO TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT MORE OF THAT
PROCESS AND WHAT YOU FEEL COULD
BE A NEW DRAFT INTO THE BYLAWS
OF THAT SECTION THAT YOU SPOKE
OF EARLIER, THAT WOULD BE FINE
TOO UNDER RECRUITING WATCH AND
THANK YOU TO TO RACHEL AND TO
THE STAFF OF SEATON AND THE
TALENTS OF ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE
FOR CONTINUING TO DO A GREAT
JOB AS WELL WITH THAT SHOW THAT
NONE OF THE COMMISSIONERS OR
THOSE WATCHING HAVE IN ANN
ARBOR INCLUSIVE.
IT IS INFORMATIVE AND INDEED A
GOOD PROGRAM THAT DOES BRING US
THAT.
>> I WAS HOPING I COULD JUST
QUICKLY GO OVER TWO TOPICS THAT
I THINK THE COMMISSION WOULD BE
INTERESTED.
>> OH SURE ALEX, GO AHEAD.
ONE SPECIFICALLY I JUST WANTED
TO BRING TO THE ATTENTION
OF THE GROUP AND I CAN SEND
THIS TO DENISE TO SHARE IF THAT
WOULD BE BEST.
BUT COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDERS WERE
SENT AN EMAIL THIS MORNING FROM
SARAH WHO IS THE DIRECTOR
OF OPERATIONS FOR FOR THE CITY
REGARDING THE TOPIC OF DOWNTOWN
PUBLIC RESTROOMS.
THIS HAS BEEN A TOPIC
OF DISCUSSION PRESUMABLY FOR
QUITE SOME TIME AS THERE ARE NO
PUBLIC RESTROOMS DOWNTOWN
OUTSIDE OF ANTHONY.
THE CITY DOES THINK IT HAS A
SOLUTION.
THERE'S A UNIT CALLED A THRONE
WHICH LOOKS SIMILAR TO, UH, A
PORTA BUT IT'S PROBABLY MORE
CLOSER TO A SINGLE USE RESTROOM
THAT YOU MIGHT SEE AT A PARK OR
SOMETHING OF THAT NATURE.
THEY HAVE MENTIONED THAT THEY
ARE GOING TO BE LOOKING ALSO AT
ACCESSIBLE UNITS.
>> THE LETTER DID NOT HAVE A
PICTURE OF A ACCESSIBLE UNIT
BUT I HAD REACHED OUT TO
COUNCIL MEMBER EDWYN AS I
THOUGHT MIGHT BE A GOOD TOPIC
FOR US TO BE CONNECTED TO,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT GETS TO THE
POINT OF WHERE THESE THINGS ARE
BEING PLACED AND HOW THEY'RE
PLACED JUST SO THAT THEY ARE AS
SUCCESSFUL AS POSSIBLE AND THAT
WE HAVE FOLKS WHO WOULD BE
USING IN NEED OF THEM BEING
ABLE TO PROVIDE INPUT ON THAT
AS WE GO FORWARD.
YEAH.
COULD I JUMP IN JUST REALLY
QUICK IN THE PRESENTATION
OF THE BUDGET THAT MR. DE HONY
PRESENTED TO US, HE TALKED
ABOUT THIS AND HOW IT'S A
PRIORITY FOR THE CITY AND HE
ALSO TALKED ABOUT HOW THEY
IDENTIFIED THROWN AS A COMPANY
BECAUSE IT IS ABLE TO MAKE
ACCESSIBLE UNITS AND THE
PICTURE HE SHOWED US DIDN'T
LOOK FULLY ACCESSIBLE.
IT HAD STAIRS GOING TO IT BUT
HE SAID THEY CAN BE COMPLETELY
RECONFIGURED.
I DO THINK THAT WAS JUST MAKING
SURE IN TERMS OF PLACEMENT, YOU
KNOW, IT'S IS AS ACCESSIBLE AS
POSSIBLE IS IS A REALLY GOOD
IDEA FOR ADVOCACY AND I CAN
START SOME OF THOSE
CONVERSATIONS.
>> I COMPLETELY AGREE.
COUNCIL MEMBER YOU KNOW, I
THINK YOU KNOW, MAKING SURE
THAT THOSE DESIGNS ARE
ACCESSIBLE AS OPPOSED THE
PLACEMENT YOU KNOW, THAT'S
PARAMOUNT AND NAVIGATING
DOWNTOWN AND THE CITY.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND IT LOOKS LIKE WE DO HAVE A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS.
I'LL GO TO COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE AND THEN COMMISSIONER
MOSAD.
>> THANK YOU.
MIGHT JUST REALLY CLICK I HAD
WATCHED THE CITY COUNCIL
MEETING AND SO I WENT TO THE
THRONE'S WEBSITE AND THEY DO ON
THE WEBSITE SHOW THE OUTSIDE
OF AN ACCESSIBLE UNIT WHICH
BASICALLY JUST HAS A METAL RAMP
GOING UP TO IT.
IT DID NOT SHOW THE INSIDE OF A
UNIT TO SEE IF THERE ARE JUST
HOW ACCESSIBLE IT IS INSIDE,
INCLUDING WHETHER OR NOT
THERE'S THE REAL AND ON THE
WEBSITE IT ALSO IT JUST SAID
THAT THEY WEREN'T AVAILABLE
UNTIL EARLY TWENTY TWENTY THREE
AND SO I DON'T AND THEY HAVEN'T
UPDATED THAT YET SO I DON'T
KNOW WHEN THE CITY WOULD BE
ABLE TO GET THEM ALTHOUGH I
DON'T KNOW JUST YEAH YEAH I
MEAN THIS IS PROPOSAL FOR THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR BUDGET AND
THEY DIDN'T SPECIFICALLY TALK
ABOUT WHEN THEY'LL BE WORKING
ON THIS BUT I THINK JUST HAVING
SOME CONTACT WITH MR. HONY AND
ME LETTING HIM KNOW IN MY ONE
ON ONES WITH HIM THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
AND TO PLEASE INVOLVE US WHEN
THE TIME IS APPROPRIATELY IS IS
I THINK THE BEST NEXT APPROACH.
BUT THANK YOU FOR POINTING THAT
ROSE ANITA MOSADDEQ, YOU HAD A
COMMENT AS WELL.
>> I DID.
I WOULD LIKE THE CITY TO
STRONGLY CONSIDER MAKING ALL
UNITS ACCESSIBLE.
>> MY RATIONALE FOR THAT IS
THAT EVERYONE CAN USE AN
ACCESSIBLE UNIT, NOT EVERYONE
CAN USE A REGULAR UNIT AND IF
THEY'RE GOING TO GO TO THE COST
OF PUTTING THEM IN, I DON'T
KNOW IF THEIR IDEA IS JUST TO
HAVE ONE UNIT HERE AND THERE OR
IF THEY'RE CONSIDERING PUTTING
MULTIPLE UNITS TOGETHER IN A
CLUSTER.
BUT TO ME IT WOULD BE THE MOST
EQUITABLE TO HAVE THEM ALL
ACCESSIBLE AND THEN THAT WAY
THERE IS NO OH WELL I HAVE TO
GO TO THE RESTROOM AT FIFTH AND
DIVISION OR NOT.
THEY DON'T EVEN CROSS THAT THEN
WILLIAM MY FAMILY IS ALREADY AT
LIBERTY AND STATE AND THAT'S
WHERE THEIR RESTROOM IS.
BUT I'VE GOT TO GO AWAY FAR
AWAY TO GET TO MINE SO THAT
WOULD BE REALLY EQUITABLE THING
FOR THEM TO CONSIDER.
>> YEAH, THAT ACTUALLY IS THE
INTENTION.
IT'S ALL UNITS WILL BE
ACCESSIBLE AND GENDER INCLUSIVE
NOT JUST BUT THAT'S STILL I
THINK PLACEMENT IS STILL AN
ISSUE RIGHT.
MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE THINKING
ABOUT LIKE CURB CUTS AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA JUST IN TERMS
OF TRAVELING TO THE RESTROOM.
BUT YES, ALL OF THEM WILL BE
ACCESSIBLE WELL AND ALSO MAKING
SURE THAT THE DOORS ARE ALSO
ACCESSIBLE JUST FROM EXPERIENCE
AS A PERSON WITH THE PHYSICAL
DISABILITY AT TIMES DOORS CAN
BE REALLY DIFFICULT TO NAVIGATE
ESPECIALLY WITH OUTDOOR
RESTROOMS.
SO ALSO FACTORING THAT IN AS
WELL WITH A GREAT POINT.
>> THANK YOU DEMAR.
>> UM JUST ONE MORE THING AND
I'LL JUST BE REALLY QUICK
BECAUSE I KNOW IF YOU'RE SHORT
ON TIME JUST A REMINDER I DID
GET A COMMUNITY CABINET WHEN WE
REACHED OUT TO ME THEY HAD SOME
CONCERNS ABOUT SOME
CONSTRUCTION THAT WAS BEING
DONE NEAR MAPLE AND CYO CHURCH
AND TO ME IT WAS A GOOD
REMINDER TO JUST IF YOU SEE
THINGS OUT IN THE COMMUNITY
THAT ARE OF CONCERN IF
CONSTRUCTION'S BEEN DONE AND
MAYBE SOMETHING APPEARS EVEN
EVEN IF IT DOESN'T APPEAR TO BE
DONE YET THE CONSTRUCTION OR
MAYBE SOME OTHER CHANGES THAT
ARE HAPPENING TO KEEP AN EYE
OUT FOR THOSE THINGS AND TO
SHARE YOUR CONCERNS WITH THIS
GROUP OR WITH FOLKS FROM THE
CITY SO THAT WE'RE MAKING SURE
THAT THINGS ARE ACCESSIBLE AT
ALL TIMES AND WHEN POSSIBLE I
CAN SEND OUT PICTURES BUT HE
HAD HAD SOME CONCERNS ABOUT
SOME PIECES OF SIDEWALK AND
OTHER PATHS THAT LOOKED
INCOMPLETE AND HE WASN'T SURE
IF THOSE WERE GOING TO BE MADE
WHOLE AT ANY POINT OR WHAT.
BUT HE KNEW AT THAT TIME THAT
THEY WERE NOT ACCESSIBLE,
ESPECIALLY AFTER SOME OF THE
RECENT STORMS THAT HE'D HAVE
BECAUSE SOME OF THOSE GRAVEL
PATH THINGS OF THAT NATURE I
CAN SEND OUT MORE INFORMATION
SO FOLKS CAN KNOW ABOUT THAT AS
WELL.
BUT JUST JUST GENERAL REMINDER
THAT WE ALWAYS NEED TO KEEP UP
ON CONSTRUCTION AND WHERE
THINGS ARE BEING MORE
CHALLENGING FOR FOR FOLKS WITH
DISABILITIES AND SPEAKING OUT
SO THAT WE CAN FIX THOSE ISSUES
.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU, ALEX.
AND NOT A VERY GOOD POINT AND
THANK YOU TO OUR ATTENTION.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE, CAN I ASK
DO YOU KNOW THE NEXT STEPS THAT
ARE HAPPENING?
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT I CAN
ASSIST WITH AND IF WE YEAH, I
GUESS FOR ME I'M NOT SURE IT'S
THE NEXT STEP IS IS TALKING
WITH YOU TO REACH OUT TO
SOMEBODY OR WHAT THAT WOULD
LOOK LIKE.
SO IF YOU WANT TO TALK OFFLINE
WE COULD DO BETTER HERE.
>> WE CAN DO THAT TOO.
YEAH.
LET'S TALK OFFLINE.
>> YEAH I WOULD SUGGEST TALKING
OFFLINE I MEAN I DON'T KNOW IF
IT'S SOMETHING YEAH.
WHERE THAT CAN BE DELEGATED TO
BUT HOPEFULLY WE CAN ALL HELP
YOU WITH THAT.
>> WE'LL PROVIDE AN UPDATE IF
THERE ISN'T ANYTHING ELSE
.
OK GO AHEAD.
I WAS JUST GOING TO LET THE
PUBLIC KNOW THAT THEY CAN REACH
US AT OUR WEBSITE AT KODAI AT
EIGHT TO GUBJRG SO THERE ARE
TWO LINKS ON OUR WEB PAGE.
IF YOU HAVE ANY CONCERNS YOU
CAN JUST SEND AN EMAIL AND I
CAN PASS IT TO MURDER.
>> THANK YOU DENNIS.
I WAS ACTUALLY GOING TO SAY
THAT IN MY CHAIR REPORT THAT WE
NOW HAVE THE CODAY EMAIL BACK
OPERATIONAL SO KODAI AND ASIAGO
DAWG WONDERFUL.
NEXT WE HAVE THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE WITH LARRY
KEILLER.
OK, YEAH.
ALSO I'LL HAVE TO PAY ATTENTION
TO MORE CONSTRUCTION EVENTS IN
THE FUTURE THEN BECAUSE WE DO
TALK ABOUT AND THAT'S ONE WE
JUST MENTIONED AS AS GOING ON.
SO I'LL KEEP I'LL TRY TO KEEP
TRACK OF THE TRANSPORTATION
PROJECTS THAT ARE BEING DONE
THAT ARE STILL OPERATIVE SO
THAT YOU CAN WATCH OUT THERE.
WE CAN PUT THEM ON TV ON THE
THEY'RE STATIONARY PART TOO I'M
SURE BUT MINE IS THE PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION WAS THERE WAS
MORE DEBATE OVER THE SIDEWALKS
AROUND THE ELKHART AREA AND
THEY JUST DON'T WANT THEM.
>> SOME PEOPLE WANT THEM THERE
AT THE ADAIR VILLAGE AND SOME
DO NOT AND THAT'S GOING ON
QUITE A BIT AND HE BIKES HE
BIKES ARE COMING BACK FROM THE
AND TAKE IT OVER BY SPIN AND
THEY'RE ASKING FOR ONE POINT
FIVE MILLION FOR PERHAPS FOUR
FOR FOUR APPS FOR APPS AND
TRAIN AND IMPROVING IMPROVEMENT
BOTH THE KIND OF PROOF IMPROVE
BOTH LETTERS PASSED OK, THIS IS
THIS IS THEY'RE TRYING TO GET
SOME MONEY FOR THE THE TRAIN
STATION AND THE TO TO HELP WITH
THE BIKES COMING IN AND THERE'S
A THING ABOUT CROSSWALK THE
CROSSWALK DESIGN GUIDELINES
WERE DEVELOPED TO DO THOUSAND
FIFTEEN AND OUR COMMISSION WAS
ACKNOWLEDGED IN THE IN THE
MAKING OF SOME OF THESE
GUIDELINES AND I SPECIFICALLY
ACKNOWLEDGE BECAUSE I WAS I WAS
THERE FOR A LOT OF THEM EARLY
SAFETY MEETINGS IN THE 2013 12,
13 AND 14 WHEN THEY FINALLY
ADOPTED THE SAFETY GUIDELINES
THAT ARE GOING TO TWEAK THEM A
LITTLE BIT MORE AND CLEAN UP
SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THEM
BECAUSE THEY'VE BEEN AROUND FOR
A WHILE AND THEY NEED TO BE
TWEAKED A LITTLE BIT AND LET'S
SEE WHAT ELSE I WROTE HERE THEN
.
OK, HOWEVER THE FEELS THAT THEY
IS OK THAT THEY NEED TO THAT'S
ABOUT ALL THAT WAS REALLY
SIGNIFICANT.
OH YEAH THEY'RE TRYING TO
ANOTHER THING IS WE'RE STILL
TRYING TO TAKE CARE OF SIDEWALK
GAPS IN THE CITY.
THERE'S A WHOLE LOT OF AREAS IN
THE SITE IN THE CITY THAT DON'T
HAVE ANY ANY SIDEWALK
CONNECTIONS AND THERE'S
SOMETHING LIKE ONE HUNDRED AND
SIXTY ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
MILES WORTH OF SIDEWALK GAPS
AND FOUR FORTY FOUR OF OF
ACTUAL SIDEWALK AND HAVE ACTUAL
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTIONS AND THEY
NEED THEY NEED THEY'RE WORKING
ON PUTTING THEM TOGETHER ALL
AROUND THE CITY WHICH I
ACTUALLY APPROVE OF BECAUSE I
DO LIKE A SIDEWALK AND THEY'RE
GOING TO THEY'RE MAKING UP BIKE
CORRALS TO PUT YOUR BIKES AT
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE MORE BIKE
TRAILS DOWNTOWN AND THAT SORT
OF THING AND THAT'S THAT'S IT.
>> AND IF YOU WANT IF YOU AS
FAR AS I DON'T KNOW, I THINK
THAT YOU SKIP THE RECRUITING
THING.
I JUST GOT A BRIEFING ON THAT.
IF YOU IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
HEAR IT UNLESS YOU WANT TO WAIT
,LARRY.
I MEAN WE WOULD GO AHEAD THE
ACTUAL RECRUITING PART IS I
KNOW THAT'S DIRECTLY ON THE
AGENDA THAT I AM IN THE PROCESS
OF CHASING DOWN TWO POSSIBLE
APPLICANTS AT THE CURRENT
MOMENT AND THAT'S IT FOR THAT
PART.
OK, I WAS GOING TO MENTION THAT
YOU KNOW, WE WILL GET TO IT
UNDER OLD BUSINESS.
>> WE HAVE THE RECRUITMENT
OUTLINE PROCESS.
YEAH, I WOULD YEAH I KNOW WE'LL
GET TO THAT PART.
I JUST WANTED TO MENTION THAT
WE WERE I WAS CHASING DOWN A
COUPLE MORE PEOPLE.
>> NO IT'S YOUR HONOR IT WASN'T
RELEVANT TO THAT.
YEAH THAT WAS RELEVANT TO THE
OTHER PART.
>> SO ALL RIGHT GO AHEAD.
I'M DONE.
>> YOU'RE GOOD THERE.
YOU'RE ON TOP OF IT
COMMISSIONER.
I DO APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TRANSPORT
COMMISSION UPDATE NEXT TO MOVE
FORWARD WE HAVE THE EUROPEAN
COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS
MEETING UPDATE WITH
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON LOVREN
REPORTING ON THE APRIL THE 11TH
MEETING AND JUST TO REMIND ALL
OF YOU THAT IF YOU HAVE ANY
INTEREST IN THIS MEETING, THEY
ARE ALL HELD ON ZOM.
IT'S QUITE EASY TO GET ON THE
EMAIL LIST AND BE INFORMED
OF ALL OF THE ACTIVITIES SO IT
MAY NOT BE A BAD IDEA EVEN IF
YOU CANNOT ATTEND ALL THE
MEETINGS BUT MOST OF THE
MEETING WAS TAKEN UP BY A
PRESENTATION BY ALISON KUSHNER
WHO IS THE DIRECTOR
OF DISABILITY EQUITY AND ADA
COORDINATOR.
AND THAT'S VERBIAGE THAT WE
MIGHT THINK ABOUT IN OUR OWN
FORTHCOMING APPOINTMENT OF ADA
COORDINATOR WHETHER THE
LANGUAGE OF DISABILITY EQUITY
IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE POSITION
WE HOPE THE CITY WILL CONTINUE
MOVING FORWARD WITH AND THAT'S
I PERCEIVE THAT AS A CHANGE
FROM THE FORMER ADA COORDINATOR
ONLY KRISTINA KLEIN WHO AS YOU
KNOW LEFT THAT POSITION SEVERAL
MONTHS AGO.
THE TEAM THAT WE WERE
INTRODUCED TO AT THAT MEETING
IS CALLED THE EQUITY CIVIL
RIGHTS AND TITLE NINE OFFICE.
AGAIN THAT FEELS LIKE NEW
VERBIAGE TO ME AND THIS
INCLUDES MEGAN MARSHALL, THE
DEPUTY ADA COORDINATOR.
PHIL DEDEN DIGITAL INFORMATION
ACCESSIBILITY COORDINATOR THERE
CARUSO ADMINISTRATIVE
SPECIALIST STEPHANIE BEEDI ASL
INTERPRETER.
SO THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
IS INVESTING IN THIS AREA,
CREATING AT LEAST ONE LAYER
OF BUREAUCRACY AROUND IT.
BUT THERE'S DEFINITELY
RESOURCES THERE THAT SEEM TO
HAVE GROWN JUST IN THE LAST SIX
MONTHS.
THOSE ARE MY MAJOR REPORTS JUST
THE INTRODUCTION OF THOSE STAFF
MEMBERS.
THAT WAS THE MAJORITY OF WHAT
WE SPOKE ABOUT AT THE MEETING.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON.
AND YOU KNOW, SOLID POINT WHEN
SPEAKING ABOUT THE LANGUAGE AND
DIFFERENT THINGS, YOU KNOW THAT
WE MAY INCORPORATE OR MAY OR
MAY NOT WHEN WHEN CONSIDERING
OUR NEW CITY POSITION AND
OF COURSE A VERY GOOD SEGWAY
INTO THE NEXT REPORT SINCE WE
HAVE OUR DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZED
NATIONAL EQUITY TO TALK ABOUT
THAT AMONG ANY OTHER THINGS
THAT THEY HAVE LAURA OUGHT TO
WELCOME IS ALWAYS THANK YOU
EVERYONE.
I AM READY TO SEND FORWARD THE
JOB DESCRIPTION THAT I SHARED
WITH EVERYONE LAST MONTH.
SO IF YOU HAVE ANY THING YOU
WOULD LIKE IN THERE, PLEASE
FEEL FREE TO SEND IT MY WAY.
MATTHEW, TO YOUR POINT ABOUT
THE EQUITY THE DISABILITY
EQUITY, I WOULD WANT TO PURSUE
THAT A LITTLE LONGER TO SEE
WHAT MEASUREMENTS WOULD BE
ASSOCIATED WITH AN INDIVIDUAL
DOING THAT HERE IN THE CITY.
RIGHT.
IT'S RIGHT LANGUAGE AND I'M
ENCOURAGED THAT THE LANGUAGE IS
ALWAYS MOVING FORWARD IN THAT
MANNER.
BUT THERE IS A CONSCIOUS EFFORT
TO MAKE CERTAIN THAT ANGELA ALL
OUTCOMES CAN BE SHOWN FROM THIS
INDIVIDUAL'S POSITION AND I
LIKE TO TIE THEM BACK TO ALL
THE BULLET POINTS SO THAT IT
CAN CLEARLY BE COMMUNICATED
WITH THE ENTIRE CITY WHAT THIS
INDIVIDUAL IS DOING AND HOW
THEY'RE MAKING A DIFFERENCE AND
THEN WHERE THERE MAY BE GAPS
AND THINGS THAT WE NEED TO
CONSIDER EITHER CHANGING THAT
PERSON'S JOB DESCRIPTION AND
MOVING THEM UP IN THE PAY SCALE
OR BRINGING IN SOMEONE ELSE TO
ASSIST IN THAT MANNER.
>> IS IT POSSIBLE TO SHORE UP
DRAFT JOB DESCRIPTION ONE MORE
TIME WITH THE COMMISSION?
YEP, I'LL SEND IT TO ZACH AND
DENISE AND THEN IF YOU ALL
COULD GET BACK TO ME BY
WEDNESDAY OF NEXT WEEK AT
LAST
WEEK OF APRIL THEN I CAN SEND
IT FORWARD THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
WITH ANY CORRECTIONS AT THE ANY
CHANGES THAT YOU ALL PROVIDE
THE OH THIS IS I I'D ALSO LIKE
JUST TO TAKE A LOOK AT AS WELL
SO WHERE WE WON'T HAVE TIME TO
REVIEW IT AS A COMMISSION
BECAUSE YOU'RE SAYING IT'S
GOING TO BE POSTED NEXT WEEK
LAURA.
>> SO I WOULD LIKE TO GET IT TO
LEGAL NEXT WEEK BY THE END
OF THE WEEK SO IT CAN BE POSTED
SO IT TAKES A MONTH TO POST A
JOB DO SO IF I CAN GET ME TO
WORK THROUGH POSTING THE JOB
THEN THE JOB CAN BE POSTED IN
JUNE SO THE INTERVIEWS CAN
HAPPEN LATE JUNE AND THAT
PERSON CAN START AS SOON AS THE
NEW BUDGET STARTS.
MM HMM.
OK, OK.
DID WE GET A CHANCE TO REVIEW
IT EARLIER?
I COULD HAVE OVERLOOKED IT IN
THE PREVIOUS COMMUNICATION.
WHAT WAS THAT CIRCULATED DENISE
LEAVE IT WAS YEAH DENISE SAYS
IT WAS SHE'S MY BRAINS IN THIS
MATTER.
>> YEAH YEAH I BELIEVE I
BELIEVE IT WAS AND I REMEMBER
SEEING A DRAFT EARLY BACK WHEN
BUT YEAH I MEAN I THINK IT'S A
GOOD IDEA TO JUST RECIRCULATE
IT ONCE MORE IF YOU DON'T MIND.
AND THEN THOSE WHO DID NOT SEE
CAN AND WE CAN ALL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY.
THANK YOU.
I'LL RESCIND IT TOMORROW.
THANK DENISE.
OK AND I ALSO WANT TO REMIND
EVERYONE WHEN YOU ARE RUNNING
ACROSS ISSUES WHETHER IT'S
CONSTRUCTION OR YOU KNOW ISSUE
IN THE SIDEWALK, UTILIZE THAT
AND ARBOR FIX IT UP IF YOU ARE
ABLE TO YOU TAKE A PICTURE FROM
YOUR PHONE AND YOU KNOW YOU
SEND IT IN AND FEEL FREE IN THE
FIELDS TO SAY THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT YOU KNOW THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY SHOULD BE KODAI I
SHOULD BE ADDRESSING AND YOU
BROUGHT INTO IT AND THE MORE
THAT THE PUBLIC USES THAT AT
THE MORE REFINED IT WILL GET IN
THAT IT WILL COME THROUGH MY
OFFICE AND IT WILL LAND ON OUR
NEW A.D.A PERSONS ACCESSIBILITY
PERSONS DESK AND SO IF YOU ARE
ABLE TO DO THAT AT THE ANN
ARBOR HAS IS A FANTASTIC WAY TO
COMMUNICATE THE PARKS
DEPARTMENT JUST DID A BIG
ACCESSIBILITY STUDY AND THEY'RE
GOING TO SPEND THE NEXT TWENTY
YEARS BRINGING EVERY PARK UP TO
AND ABOVE THE YOU KNOW,
ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS JUST
FANTASTIC.
BUT A LOT OF THE FEEDBACK THAT
THEY USED WERE THOSE SNAPSHOTS
AND COMMON FROM THE APP THAT A
ANN ARBOR HAS FOR EVERYONE TO
USE TO REPORT PROBLEMS AND THAT
REALLY ASSISTED BECAUSE THE
PERSON CAME AND LOOKED AT SOME
PARKS IN THE WINTER WHEN THEY
WERE COVERED WITH SNOW AND SO
YOU COULDN'T NECESSARILY SEE
SOME OF THE PROBLEMS WITH
SIDEWALKS.
MAYBE SNOW WAS COVERING IT.
SO THOSE PHOTOS THEY HAD FROM
THE PAST WERE SUPER HELPFUL.
SO USE THOSE KIND OF YOU KNOW,
PUSH IT, MAKE IT MAKE WORK AS
WELL AS IT CAN FOR EVERYONE.
AS YOU SAID EARLIER, LET'S
BRING IN ALL ACCESSIBLE THINGS
AS WE DO NEW THINGS.
>> THANK YOU, LAURA.
WELL SAID.
AND SO YES, IF WE CAN ALL BE
DILIGENT ON YOU KNOW, USING IT
TO FIX IT, I THINK THAT'D BE
GREAT AND THEN REALLY GOOD TO
KNOW, LAURA, THAT THE
ARCHITECTURAL FIRM, YOU KNOW,
IN THAT PLAN IS BEING
IMPLEMENTED AND IN PLACE FOR
LONG TERM WITH PARKS AND REC.
AND I'D LIKE TO COMMEND THEM ON
THAT EFFORT AND HOPEFULLY THEY
CAN KEEP US INFORMED, YOU KNOW,
LONG TERM AS THAT CONTINUES TO
GO THROUGH AS WELL.
AND I THINK MYSELF AND THE NEW
HIRE WILL BE THE INDIVIDUALS
THAT CAN COMMUNICATE OUT WHAT'S
HAPPENING.
I'M CURRENTLY WORKING YOU KNOW,
I'VE BEEN BROUGHT INTO THE
FINAL PROCESSES AND I'M WORKING
WITH PARKS AND REC AND THE
ACCESSIBILITY COORDINATOR WILL
HAVE A COMPONENT OF THE PLAN
THAT PARKS AND REC IS GOING TO
START IMPLEMENTING TO HELP
OVERSEE AND TRAIN AND DO THOSE
VARIOUS AWESOME JOBS.
>> YEAH, GOOD GOOD GOOD TO
HEAR.
THANK YOU.
UM, ANYTHING ELSE FOR LAURA AT
THIS TIME.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR OK THANK YOU
SO MUCH LAURA.
WE ALWAYS APPRECIATE YOUR
PRESENCE AND ALSO YOUR YOUR
EFFORTS AS WELL.
SO NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO THE
CITY PERSONNEL REPORT WITH
DENISE AFTERNOON.
>> THE CITY IS WELCOMING
NICOLAS TO POLICE OFFICER KAREN
FINNEY, FIFTEENTH DISTRICT
COURT CLERK MATTHEW HOAK,
POLICE SERVICES SPECIAL CADET
DANIEL HORNING, POLICE OFFICER
CHRISTOPHER LUKE DETROIT EXCUSE
ME POLICE SERVICES SPECIAL DEBT
RETIREMENT FAREWELL TO FRANK
WHICHER JUNIOR FLEET SERVICES
FACILITY MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN
JEFFREY BUT PUBLIC WORK
TECHNICIAN DENNIS LAN KRUMM
FLEET AND FACILITY SUPERVISOR
KEVIN ERNEST PARKS AND
RECREATION THOMAS CAPECCHI
POLICE DETECTIVE MICROLENSING
POLICE SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT
OFFICER AND PATRICK MAINO
PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISOR MASSET
.
>> ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU SO MUCH
DENISE AND YEAH WE REALLY
APPRECIATE IT.
NEXT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
EACH ER REPORT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO FIRST
OF ALL IN THE CHAIR REPORT I
DID WANT TO MAKE AN
ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT THIS.
WE STILL HAVE ONE MORE MEETING
WITH HER BUT I JUST WANTED TO
FOR THE PUBLIC RECORD GIVE I
DON'T THINK WORDS CAN EVEN
REALLY GIVE AN ADEQUATE THANK
YOU TO DENISE GINS AND WHAT
SHE'S DONE FOR OUR COMMISSION
AND FOR THE CITY AS OUR
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AS WELL AS
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT OF THREE
OTHER COMMISSIONS I BELIEVE.
AND SO YOU KNOW, I DID SEE THE
ANNOUNCEMENT FOR YOUR
RETIREMENT AND ALTHOUGH IT WAS
BITTERSWEET BECAUSE VERY
DESERVING BUT ALSO SAD TO SEE
YOU GO YOU KNOW, AGAIN, I
CANNOT EXPRESS MY DEEP
GRATITUDE FOR YOU, DENISE AND
HOW MUCH OF A PLEASURE IT HAS
BEEN.
UM, I I HOPE THAT YOU WILL KEEP
MYSELF AND THEN THE COMMISSION
INFORMED WHO YOUR REPLACEMENT
IS AND THAT WE CAN BE
INTRODUCED TO THEM PRIOR TO
YOUR FULL EXIT IF POSSIBLE.
>> OH MOST DEFINITELY.
OK AND AND JUST THANK YOU AGAIN
FOR ALL OF YOUR EFFORTS I I
WISH YOU THE BEST IN YOUR
RETIREMENT.
>> YOU DESERVE IT.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT SO MUCH.
SUCH A HARD MOVE TO MAKE.
WELL MISS DENISE, I WILL MISS
YOU.
>> IT'S A PLEASURE.
YEAH.
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION IN FACT
I HAVE IT HAS DEFINITELY BEEN
MY PLEASURE.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY.
>> I ALSO FEEL THE SAME WAY I'M
GOING TO MISS YOU LOT.
YOU'VE DONE SUCH GREAT WORK FOR
OUR COMMISSION AND FOR OUR
SUBCOMMITTEES AND YOU'RE A
PLEASURE TO WORK WITH SO
CONGRATS ON YOUR RETIREMENT.
I APPRECIATE THAT IT HAS BEEN
MY PLEASURE.
>> THANK YOU ALL THIS LITTLE
BIT OF YOU WILL YOU LEAVE LEAVE
AN EXACT COPY OF YOU WHEN YOU
LEAVE SO WE DON'T HAVE TO LOSE
YOU.
>> THANK YOU LARRY.
ABSOLUTELY.
>> AND THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MOVING ON IN MY CHAIR REPORT
HERE FOLKS.
I JUST WANTED TO YOU KNOW I
DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH OF YOU KNEW
ABOUT THIS BUT I JUST WANTED TO
SEND MY CONDOLENCES TO A FORMER
COMMISSIONER IN OUR CITY WHO
YOU HAD SOME VERY UNFORTUNATE
EVENTS HAPPENED IN THE CITY.
YOU KNOW, THEY WERE JUST TAKEN
FROM FROM OUR CITY AND FROM
THIS EARTH FAR TOO SOON AND
JUST RANDOMLY AND WAS THE
COMMISSIONER AND HAD SERVED OUR
CITY VERY WELL I BELIEVE THERE
ON THE I BELIEVE JUNE WAS ON
THE POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
.
YES.
HE WAS A MEMBER OF THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND SHE
HANDLED BUDGET AND RECRUITING
FOR THE COMMISSION AND WAS JUST
A WONDERFUL COMMISSIONER.
YEAH.
AND SO I WANT TO JUST SEND MY
MY CONDOLENCES OUT AS A
COMMISSION TO TO HER AND HER
FAMILY AND FOR HER SERVICE AS
WELL.
AND HOPEFULLY, YOU KNOW, HER
COMMITMENT WILL NEVER BE
FORGOTTEN AND AS COMMISSIONERS
WE CAN CONTINUE TO UPHOLD THE
STANDARD THAT INDIVIDUALS LIKE
HER HAVE SAID.
SO I JUST WANT TO DO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AND AND ALSO
WANTED TO ENCOURAGE ALL OF US
TO ATTEND IF WE COULD DO
NOTHING ABOUT US WITHOUT US.
FIRST OF ALL, IT DOES HAVE ONE
MORE DAY TOMORROW.
SO IF YOU GUYS ARE ABLE TO
CARVE OUT, YOU KNOW, AN HOUR OR
TWO I JUST TO SEE SOME OF THOSE
FILMS TALK TO SOME OF THE FILM
MAKERS AND ALSO JUST REALLY
UNDERSTAND SOME OF THE
DISABILITY FEELINGS NOT ONLY
JUST WITHIN MEDIA BUT ALSO IN
ADVOCACY AND KIND OF WHAT IS ON
THE FOREFRONT.
I THINK IT'S VERY INFORMATIVE.
SO YOU KNOW, I ENCOURAGE ALL
OF YOU TO IF YOU CAN REGISTER
FOR THAT AND CHECK AND IF NOT I
NO PROBLEM TO CHECK IT OUT NEXT
YEAR HOPEFULLY FOR THEIR FOURTH
ONE AS WELL ALSO AND WE'LL
TOUCH A LITTLE BIT ON THIS
LATER IN THE AGENDA.
BUT I WANTED TO ALSO ENCOURAGE
ALL OF US AS ANNOUNCED LATER
AND UP IN OUR NEW BUSINESS
PORTION I WANT TO ENCOURAGE ALL
OF US TO ATTEND THE VISIONS
CONFERENCE COMING UP AND TRY TO
BE AT THE TABLE IF IF WE'RE NOT
WORKING OTHER TABLES.
I KNOW MANY OF US ON THE
COMMISSION DO MANY DIFFERENT
THINGS BUT I HOPE THAT ALL
OF US CAN BE SOME GOOD ON THE
GROUND FOR THE COMMISSION.
WE DO NOT HAVE TO BE THERE.
NONE OF YOU HAVE TO BE THERE
ALL DAY.
BUT IT WOULD JUST BE VERY
ENCOURAGING TO SEE SOME OF YOU
THROUGHOUT THE DAY IF YOU JUST
STOP BY AND EVEN SHAKE HANDS
WITH OTHERS AT TABLES OR EVEN
TRY AND ANSWER QUESTIONS TO
SOME COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO ARE
LOOKING TO GET INVOLVED THEIR
NEW RESIDENTS OR I KNOW FROM MY
EXPERIENCE WE HAD RESIDENTS
FROM ALL ACROSS THE STATE
ACTUALLY JUST COME TO THIS TO
SEE THE DIFFERENT RESOURCES
AVAILABLE IN THE DIFFERENT TECH
AVAILABLE AND THEY WERE AN ODD
BECAUSE IN THEIR SMALL TOWN IN
OUR STATE OF MICHIGAN THEY DID
NOT HAVE THOSE RESOURCES
OFFERED AND SO IT WAS GOOD TO
BE ABLE TO GIVE THEM
INFORMATION AND RESOURCES AND
THEY WERE SO GRATEFUL.
SO JUST WANT TO ENCOURAGE ALL
OF YOU AS MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE TO COME OUT AT SOME
POINT WHETHER IT'S FOR AN HOUR,
WHETHER IT'S FOR A HALF HOUR
JUST TO COME AND SHOW YOUR
SUPPORT.
YEAH, THAT'S MY CHAIR.
PORT SO I'LL MOVE ON TO OLD
BUSINESS SO UNDER OLD BUSINESS
LARRY TOUCHED ON THIS BRIEFLY
DURING RECRUITMENT BUT WE DO
HAVE THE KODAI DRAFT
RECRUITMENT OUTLINE PROCESSES
AND OF COURSE IN OUR AGENDA WE
DO HAVE ACCESS TO THAT.
AND SO YOU KNOW, THERE'S A
DRAFT OF THIS OUTLINE THAT YOU
CAN REVIEW AND THERE'S ABOUT
SIX STEPS TO THIS IN THE SIXTH
STEP OF COURSE IS TO WRITE AN
AMENDMENT TO BYLAWS SO THAT WE
CAN ADD THESE PROCESSES INTO
OUR BYLAWS.
BUT RIGHT NOW THE PROCESS LOOK
LIKE THIS TO REVIEW ALL
APPLICANTS AND TO DO THAT AT
THE PP OUR PARTNERS AND
ACCESS MEETING AND THEN TO HAVE
A RESOLUTION AND TO INTERVIEW
POSSIBLE CANDIDATES SORT
OF FIND OUT THEIR INTEREST AND
THEN PRESENT CHOZEN APPLICANTS
OR AN APPLICANT TO THE
COMMISSION OF THE RESUME DURING
THE PUBLIC COMMENT WITH THE Q&A
AND THEN ALSO MOVE TO ALLOW THE
COMMISSION TO VOTE FOR THE
PROSPECTIVE CANDIDATE AND THEN
OF COURSE TO SEND OUR REQUEST
TO THE MAYOR'S OFFICE AND THE
CITY COUNCIL FOR APPROVAL.
SO THAT IS KIND OF I THINK A
VERY ADEQUATE RECRUITMENT
PROCESSES, AN OUTLINE OF OUR
PROCESSES GOING FORWARD.
VICE CHAIRMAN KEELER, DID YOU
HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD?
THIS IS YEAH, THIS IS A ROUGH
OUTLINE AND SO IN HERE WE COULD
TWEAK THAT UP A LITTLE BIT BUT
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT
TO EXCLUDE THE FACT THAT WE CAN
EITHER INTERVIEW HAVE THE
CANDIDATE, FOR EXAMPLE, ATTEND
A LIVE MEETING OR OR BE ON
ZOOME WITH US.
>> I YOU KNOW, IF WE THE PP
MIGHT NOT HAVE TO REVIEW AN
APPLICATION BUT IF ONE OF US
RECRUITING NUMBERS DO, THAT'S
FINE.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO MAKE CLEAR
THAT IF LIKE FOR EXAMPLE, I
REVIEW A APPLICANT I GET THE
AND I GET THEM I GET A HOLD
OF THEM IN SOME FASHION BY
EMAIL OR PHONE THAT THAT DOES
NOT MEAN THAT I CAN'T SEND THAT
ALL OF THE COMMISSIONERS WON'T
ALSO HAVE ACCESS TO THE
APPLICATION.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT THEY HAVE
AN ACCESS TO THE APPLICATIONS
AS WELL.
THEY CAN THEY CAN REVIEW THEM
JUST AS WELL AS I CAN AND
THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
I LIKE THE ROUGH OUTLINE BUT
IT'S ROUGHLY NEEDING TO BE
TWEAKED I THINK AND I'D LIKE TO
I WOULD LIKE TO PUT IT INTO THE
AMENDMENT.
I WOULD LIKE TO AMEND THE
RECRUITING BECAUSE IN THE
FUTURE IF I'M NOT ON THE
COMMISSION OR IF THERE'S SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT RECRUITING, I'D
LIKE IT TO BE RIGHT THERE IN
THE BYLAWS SO YOU CAN SEE IT
COULD BE THE SAME GENERAL
GENERAL PROCEDURE EVERY TIME
BECAUSE BY BUT BY WHAT IT SAYS
IN THAT ARTICLE IT ONLY GIVES
THE RECRUITING COMMITTEE THE
THE POWER TO PASS ON AN
APPLICATION TO THE COMMISSION
AND DOESN'T EVEN SAY THAT THE
COMMISSION HAS TO DO ANYTHING
ABOUT IT EXCEPT PASS TO THE
MAYOR.
SO IN THEORY YOU COULD STRIP
ALL THESE THINGS.
>> I WON'T DO THAT.
I WANT TO BE AS OPEN AS
POSSIBLE RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, YOU HAVE
A QUESTION ONE THANK YOU FOR
PREPARING THIS.
I THINK IT'S A REALLY GOOD
IDEA.
MY JUST ONE QUESTION STRICTLY
FOR CLARIFICATION IS POINT
NUMBER TWO WHICH READS
RESOLUTION TO INTERVIEW
POSSIBLE CANDIDATE.
IS THIS THE SUGGESTION HERE
THAT WE AS A WHOLE BODY WOULD
DO THAT OR WOULD THE PARTNERS
AND ACCESS REALLY HAVE THE
AUTONOMY TO GO AHEAD AND
INTERVIEW SOMEBODY WITHOUT
FIRST YOU KNOW, BECAUSE
OF DELAYS?
THAT'S MY CONCERN.
>> THEY'RE ACTUALLY MY
REASONINGS FOR AN INTERVIEW BY
EITHER THE RECRUITING CHAIR OR
THE CIA COMMIT IS TO SEE TO SEE
IF THEY'RE GOING TO BE WELL TO
BE HONEST TO SEE IF THEY'RE
GOING TO BE A GOOD FIT BECAUSE
WE'VE GOT SOME APPLICANTS WHO
ARE WOULD BE LESS THAN LESS
THAN A GOOD FIT FOR SORT OF A
GATEKEEPING THING.
>> I THINK I THINK IT'S VERY
WISE THEY GET QUITE OK, THEY
GET INTERVIEWED.
>> THEY WOULD GET INTERVIEWED
TWICE, INTERVIEWED BY THE CIA
OR THE RECRUITING CHAIR AND
THEN THEY THEN THEY WOULD HAVE
A CHANCE TO GET INTERVIEWED
AGAIN IN THE IN THE COMMISSION
THE WHOLE COMMISSION WOULD BE
ABLE TO DO IT.
YEAH, I DON'T I DON'T KNOW IF
THAT'S GOING TO BE BASED ON
INTERVIEWS BUT I'D BE CURIOUS
AGAIN I THINK IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO HAVE THIS
PROCEDURE.
I'M JUST WONDERING IF WE COULD
STREAMLINE IT EVEN A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH, THESE ARE ALL GOOD
QUESTIONS.
SO ARE THERE YEAH.
YES.
SO I GUESS YOU KNOW MICHAEL AND
ALL OF YOU TO THE COMMISSION
SHOULD WE THEN JUST, YOU KNOW,
CONTINUE TO, YOU KNOW, REVIEW
THIS AND DISCUSS IT AGAIN AT
THE NEXT MEETING OR LARRY OR IS
THERE EMOTION THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING FOR ON THIS?
>> WHAT DO WE THINK ARE THE
NIGHTS I'M NOT I WOULDN'T MOVE
THAT WE SEND IT WE WORK ON IT
AND PIAFFE ALEX AND RACHEL ARE
WILLING TO DO THAT THAT WE WORK
ON IT IN PEER AND THAT
SUGGESTION'S BE SENT TO THE
MEMBERS OF THE PIA COMMITTEE ME
COMMISSIONER GOSSIP'S
COMMISSIONER HAWKIN'S AND IF
YOU HAVE ANY SUGGESTION WE CAN
DO THAT IN HERE AND THEN
PRESENT IT AGAIN, THAT WOULD BE
MY SUGGESTION.
>> YEAH I THINK OUR GO AHEAD.
>> SORRY.
NO GO AHEAD.
>> JUST TO ADD TO WHAT LARRY
SAID, I THINK OUR MAIN GOAL WAS
JUST TO KEEP THE FULL
COMMISSION UPDATED ON WHAT OUR
INITIAL THOUGHTS WERE.
THIS IS IN ANYTHING DEFINITIVE
AT THIS POINT BUT WE THOUGHT IT
WAS BETTER TO BRING IT AS A
ROUGH DRAFT AND THEN BRING IT
BACK WITH GREATER DETAILS AT A
LATER POINT.
WE JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
EVERYONE WAS IN AGREEMENT WITH
THE BASIC IDEA SO WE COULD WORK
ON IT AND FLESH IT OUT MORE.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS.
SO COMMISSIONER SOLOMON.
YEAH I WOULD SAY ANY ADDITIONAL
FINE TUNING THAT YOU DO THERE
NEEDS TO BE IN THIS PROCESS
FEEL FREE TO SEND THAT TO
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE AND
COMMISSIONER HOPKINS AS WELL AS
TO VICE CHAIRMAN KEELER SO THAT
THEY CAN IMPLEMENT THAT AND
THEN WE CAN THEN REVIEW THIS
AGAIN AT THE MAIN MEETING WITH
HOPEFULLY ONE GO AHEAD.
>> I'LL SAY ONE OTHER THING I
WELCOME YOU TO OPERATE PRETTY
MUCH UNDER THAT PROCESS UNTIL
WE REFINE IT AND IF WE CHANGE
IT AT ALL, I'M GOING TO
CONTINUE TO OPERATE UNDER THAT
PROCESS UNTIL WE DECIDE WE'RE
GOING TO DO WITH IT.
>> UNDERSTOOD.
I THINK THAT'S A GOOD I THINK
THAT'S A GOOD IDEA TO USE THAT
PROCESS BECAUSE THAT WAY THE
COMMISSIONERS GET TO BE
INVOLVED AND EVERYBODY GETS TO
BE INVOLVED.
>> YEP, I LIKE THAT AND I THINK
IT'S FAIR.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
ABOUT THIS DRAFT OF THE
RECRUITMENT OUTLINE PROCESSES
AT THIS POINT AND OK ALSO ALL
RIGHT NEXT I DIDN'T KNOW IF
THERE IS ANY CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE TO BE HAD.
COUNCIL MEMBER EDWIN YEAH.
>> THERE ARE A FEW KIND
OF ONGOING ACCESSIBILITY
ISSUES
THAT I'VE BEEN WORKING ON.
ONE IS AS I TALKED ABOUT THE
MAIN STREET CLOSINGS FOR THAT
HAPPEN DURING THE SUMMER WHERE
WE'RE GOING TO CLOSE MAIN
STREET AND SEVERAL ADJACENT
STREETS AS WELL.
>> I'VE BEEN WORKING WITH MOIRA
THOMPSON ON ALLOCATING MORE
ACCESSIBLE SPACES PARKING
SPACES IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO
WHERE THESE CLOSURES ARE GOING
TO HAPPEN.
>> THEY'VE APPROVED THREE
PARKING SPOTS PREVIOUSLY THEY
APPROVED FIVE.
BUT AFTER THEIR ASSESSMENT THEY
DID SAY THERE WAS A LACK
OF ACCESSIBLE PARKING.
>> SO IT'S GOOD THAT I BROUGHT
UP AND NOW I'M WORKING WITH
THEM ON HOW WE KIND
OF INTEGRATE ACCESSIBLE PATHS
INTO OUR MAPS OR PARKING MAPS
THAT ARE AVAILABLE ONLINE SO
THAT PEOPLE CAN PLAN PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES CAN PLAN
THEIR TRIPS IN ADVANCE LIKE I
WOULD IF MAIN STREET IS CLOSED
I WOULD PARK HERE TO BE BICHARD
.
I'D HAVE TO TRAVERSE THIS WAY
OR JUST MAKING SURE THAT ROUTES
ACCESSIBLE ROUTES ARE ALSO
PRESENT IN SOME OF THESE MAPS.
I'LL KEEP YOU UPDATED BUT
THAT'S PROGRESSING IN THE AND
THE OTHER THING IS SPEAKING
OF DDA DURING OUR MEETING I
REACHED OUT TO MILTON ABOUT THE
DOWNTOWN RESTROOM'S AND US
PARTICIPATING IN THE PLACEMENT
ANALYSIS AND HIS RESPONSE IS
FIRSTLY HE CONFIRMED AND SAID
YES, EVERY UNIT THAT WILL BE
RELEASED WILL BE ACCESSIBLE AND
GENDER INCLUSIVE.
SO WE CONFIRM THAT HE ALSO SAID
THAT THE PLACEMENT WILL HAVE TO
DO WITH INFRASTRUCTURE,
ELECTRICITY, SIDEWALK WITH ET
CETERA.
BUT HE IS SUPPORTIVE OF US
PARTICIPATING IN THAT PROCESS
AND MORE.
THOMPSON ARE THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE DENHA IS PART
OF THE WORKING GROUP WHO'S
LEADING THE PLACEMENT ANALYSIS
THESE BATHROOMS AND SHE'S GOING
TO EXTEND AN INVITATION TO US
TO PARTICIPATE ALSO.
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
YEAH, UM, THE OTHER THING THAT
I HAD A FEW OTHER THINGS UH YOU
KNOW THERE HAS BEEN ONGOING
ACTUALLY ONE STOP HERE AND
KATHLEEN, IF YOU WANT TO JUMP
IN WITH A QUESTION PLEASE.
>> YEAH.
YOU HAVE A COMMENT.
>> UM, THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED JUST TO SHARE
THANK YOU FOR GETTING US MORE
INVOLVED IN TERMS OF THE
PLACEMENT OF SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT I FOUND IN THE PAST AS AN
ABLE BODIED PERSON IS NOT
NECESSARILY GOING TO SEE.
SO IF WE'RE ACTUALLY THEY'RE
ACTUALLY ABLE TO TELL US THEIR
POSSIBLE SITE PLANS AND TO HAVE
PERSONS WITH IS ACTUALLY
PHYSICALLY VIEW THOSE SITES
FROM A DISABLED POINT OF VIEW
BECAUSE I KNOW THAT THERE ARE
TIMES WHERE ESPECIALLY DURING
THE ART FAIR OR SUMMER FESTIVAL
THINGS WILL HAPPEN AND I'LL SAY
HEY, THIS IS NOT ACCESSIBLE,
WHY DID YOU DO THIS?
AND THEY'RE LIKE WELL I CAN DO
THIS OR THIS PERSON CAN DO
THAT.
I'M LIKE BUT I'M IN A
WHEELCHAIR AND YOU DON'T HAVE A
CURB CUT CUTTER YOU DON'T HAVE
THIS YOU DON'T HAVE THAT.
>> SO I THINK THAT HAVING OUR
EYES ON IT IS GOING TO BE
EXTREMELY HELPFUL.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR INITIATING
THAT.
I AGREE AND I THINK THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT I THINK WHAT'S
HAPPENING NOW IS IT'S THE
BEGINNING STAGES THIS WORK
GROUP FORMATION.
SO THEY'LL INVITE US THEN.
BUT I THINK THAT PART OF BEST
PRACTICES REALLY TO BE
EVALUATED ACCESSIBLE
INFRASTRUCTURE IS MAKING PEOPLE
DISABILITIES ACTUALLY USE IT
AND SEE IT AND EXPERIENCE IT
AND GIVE FEEDBACK.
SO I THINK THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE SHOULD WE SHOULD START
UM I'LL GO AHEAD.
>> OK, SO THERE'S OTHER ONGOING
UPDATES.
THERE'S BEEN SOMETHING AROUND
ACTUALLY I'LL HAVE TO BECAUSE
I'M WORKING WITH THE STATE
LEGISLATURE.
UM LET ME JUST OH ANOTHER ISSUE
IS YOU ARE AT THE STATE LEVEL
THERE HOPEFULLY IS GOING TO BE
SOME CHANGE TO SOME MINIMUM
WAGE AND I HAVE BEEN THINKING
ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF US AS
A COMMISSION WRITING RESOLUTION
IN SUPPORT OF IT.
WE CAN'T BAN SUB MINIMUM WAGE
HERE BUT WE CAN CALL UPON THE
STATE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
AND FROM WHAT I'VE HEARD IT IS
BEING TAKEN UP BY SENATOR.
SO I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT IN TERMS OF NEXT STEPS
MAYBE WE CAN FORM A WORK GROUP
ON.
>> WELL, FIRST LET ME ASK ARE
YOU GUYS A TRUSTED YEAH.
>> I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I DON'T
SPEAK FOR THE FULL COMMISSION
BUT YOU KNOW, COMMISSIONERS ARE
WE INTERESTED ON THIS?
I'M DEFINITELY INTERESTED IN,
YOU KNOW, BACKING THIS AND YOU
KNOW, FIGHTING FOR THIS.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT WHAT THE
OTHER COMMISSIONERS THE
UNEDUCATED BACKING IT.
BUT BUT HOW MANY HOW MUCH TEETH
WE HAVE I MEAN, YOU KNOW, WE
CAN PUT THINGS IN THERE AND I'M
GOING TO HAVE TO GET CLARITY
ALSO FROM LEGAL ON HOW MUCH
POWER WE WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE.
>> BUT WE CAN PUT THINGS IN
THERE LIKE DIRECTING OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ADVOCATE FOR
THIS WHEN HE MEETS WITH OUR
REPRESENTATIVES, WHEN HE MEETS
WITH STATE OFFICIALS.
I MEAN THAT'S WHAT WE DID WITH
THE RESOLUTION RECENTLY WROTE
ABOUT AND ENERGY EQUITY
ADVOCATING FOR THINGS LIKE
COMPENSATING RATEPAYERS BEYOND
THIRTY FIVE DOLLARS.
>> THERE'S AN OUTAGE SO THERE
MIGHT BE SOME THINGS WE CAN DO
BUT I THINK THAT WE SHOULD
DEFINITELY GET THE OPINION
OF LEGAL AND ON THIS AS WELL.
>> YEAH, I AGREE.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S A COUPLE
OF COMMISSIONERS COUNCIL
MEMBERS THAT HAVE THEIR HANDS
UP HERE.
I BELIEVE COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE
AND MR SELIM KNOW COMMISSIONER
.
YEAH, I KIND OF WOULD PREFER
THAT WE STICK TO OUR PURVIEW
AND I THINK IF THERE'S A RIDER
IN THERE ABOUT EMPLOYING PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES THAT'S
SOMETHING I CAN GET BEHIND.
BUT EMPLOYING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES REMAINS A MAJOR
PROBLEM.
WHATEVER IS THE MINIMUM WAGE
SITUATION WHICH I SYMPATHIZE
WITH BUT I DO THINK WE HAVE A
LARGER ISSUE WHICH IS ABOUT ALL
OF THE OBSTACLES THAT ARE OUT
THERE TO EMPLOYING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND THAT'S WHERE I
THINK MY FOCUS WOULD PREFER TO
BE.
>> CAN YOU EXPLAIN THAT A
LITTLE BIT MORE?
ARE YOU SAYING THAT THIS MORE
SO SHOULD BE A CALL FOR JUST IN
GENERAL INCREASED EMPLOYMENT
OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES OR
IS IT SOMETHING YOU MENTIONED?
I THINK THAT OUR CHARGE RELATES
TO THE EMPLOYMENT GAP BETWEEN
PEOPLE WITH AND WITHOUT
DISABILITIES WHICH I THINK IS
SIGNIFICANT.
I DON'T HAVE THE STATISTICS
BEFORE ME BUT I THINK IF IF
WE'RE GOING TO GET BEHIND
SOMETHING THAT'S WHAT I WOULD
WANT TO SEE ADDRESSED.
AND I'M WORRIED THAT THIS
ISSUE, HOWEVER PRESSING, MIGHT
TAKE OUR ENERGIES AWAY FROM
WHAT I WOULD SEE OUR PURVIEW IS
CAN WE MAKE CHANGE IN TERMS
OF INCREASING EMPLOYMENT FOR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES?
>> YEAH, I MEAN MAYBE A FEW
OTHERS GO AS WELL.
>> BUT YOU KNOW, PART OF THIS
IS BECAUSE I BELIEVE IT'S 14
SEE REQUIREMENTS AROUND LIKE
HOW MUCH MONEY A PERSON WITH
DISABILITY CAN MAKE AND IT'S
ALSO YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU'RE
PAYING PEOPLE BELOW A LIVING
WAGE THAT'S A REAL DETERRENT TO
EMPLOYMENT AND THERE'S
BUSINESSES IN OUR AREA LIKE
BITTY AND BEAU'S THAT OPERATE
WITH A DEDICATION TO WORK.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO PLAY PEOPLE
SOME MINIMUM WAGE BUT THEY ONLY
EMPLOY PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
>> SO I THINK BY US WRITING A
RESOLUTION IT COULD PUT
PRESSURE ON STATE LEGISLATURES
TO ACT THEM KNOWING THAT A CITY
LIKE OURS THAT IS VERY INVOLVED
AND VERY DEMOCRATICALLY
POWERFUL IS SAYING THAT WE
DON'T WE DON'T WANT TO PRACTICE
THIS IN OUR AND OUR CITY AND WE
WANT YOU TO CHANGE STATE LAWS
TO PREEMPT IT.
>> BUT I ALSO I UNDERSTAND WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING.
YEAH, PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
OF THE HIGHEST RATES OF POVERTY
AND SOME OF THE LOWEST
UNEMPLOYMENT OF ALL GROUPS.
>> YES.
THERE HAS TO BE POSTER AND
COMMISSIONER REDCLIFFS, I WAS
JUST GOING TO MENTION THAT THE
THE RATE OF UNEMPLOYMENT IS
VERY HIGH WITH DISABILITY
GROUPS.
ABOUT SIXTY FOUR PERCENT
OF PEOPLE ARE NOT EMPLOYED IF
YOU'RE DISABLED IT IS VERY HARD
TO FIND A JOB THAT WITHOUT
GETTING.
TOOK ME A GOOD YEAR TO FIND A
JOB OH EXCUSE MY DOG.
THAT WOULD ALLOW ME TO WORK FOR
THEM WITHOUT HAVING TO JUMP
THROUGH HOOPS WITH VOCATIONAL
REHABILITATION.
I JUST WENT OUT ON MY OWN AND
DID IT AFTER THAT POINT BECAUSE
HE HAD HAD A STUDENT
REQUIREMENT THAT I WOULD HAVE
TO MEET IF I WENT THROUGH THEM.
SO I'M JUST SAYING THAT IS VERY
HARD TO FIND AND THERE'S A LOT
OF DISCRIMINATION I GUESS WHEN
IT GOES TO FINDING A JOB OUT
THERE RIGHT NOW NEEDS IN A
PERSON WITH A WHEELCHAIR
BECAUSE WHEN I WAS WALKING WITH
THE CANE I HAD NO TROUBLE
GETTING A JOB.
AS SOON AS I GOT IN A
WHEELCHAIR I HAD A VERY
DIFFICULT TIME.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
AND THEN RADCLYFFE, YOU HAD A
QUESTION AND COMMISSIONER
GOSSAGE DID YOU AS WELL I GUESS
REGARDING THE SUBMENTAL SUB
MINIMUM WAGE.
YES.
WELL FOR SOME PEOPLE WHO HAVE
DISABILITY IS THERE IS AN
INCOME RESTRICTION BASED ON IF
THEY HAVE SSI AND OR SS AND HOW
MUCH YOU CAN WORK IF YOU HAVE
SSD.
RIGHT.
SO THAT'S ALSO A RESTRICTION.
HOWEVER, JUST IN GENERAL PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES MAKE LIKE
SIXTY CENTS ON THE DOLLAR.
WHEN CAN COMPARED TO SOMEONE
WHO DOESN'T HAVE A DISABILITY.
RIGHT.
AND SO
I DO THINK THAT MAKING
SURE THAT THERE IS A FAIR WAGE
FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE
DISABILITIES IS IMPORTANT.
IT MAY NOT BE THAT IF THEY'RE
GOING FROM A SUB MINIMUM WAGE
TO A TRUE MINIMUM AGE THAT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO WORK AS
MANY HOURS BUT THEY ALSO MAY BE
MAKING MORE MONEY OR MAKING UP
FOR THAT.
AND SO I DON'T I DON'T
NECESSARILY THINK IT'S AN
EITHER OR WHETHER YOU FIGHT FOR
EMPLOYMENT OR YOU FIGHT FOR
MINIMUM ERADICATING SET MINIMUM
WAGE.
I THINK BOTH OF THOSE ARE
EQUALLY IMPORTANT AND THEY GO
HAND IN HAND THE OTHER THING
TOO IS I DON'T KNOW IF WE TRACK
THIS OR HOW WE TRACK THIS OR
THE STATE TRACKS IT EXACTLY.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT CONTRACTORS, RIGHT.
HOW MANY OF THE CONTRACTORS DO
YOU KNOW HAVE DO WE
SPECIFICALLY IS THERE A WAY TO
KNOW IF THEY HAVE A DISABILITY
OR NOT?
DO THEY SELF-IDENTIFIED?
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION AND I
DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO THEM.
I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO IT.
WHAT I DO KNOW IS THAT LABOR AT
THE STATE LEVEL IS ALSO WORKING
ON THIS AT THE STATE LEVEL
BECAUSE THEY'VE REALIZED
OBVIOUSLY THIS IS AN EMPLOYMENT
ISSUE AND SOME MINIMUM WAGE IS
EMPLOYEE DISCRIMINATION RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW YOUR QUESTION.
I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO YOUR
QUESTION ABOUT CONTRACTORS BUT
I CAN FIND OUT AND IF THIS WAS
A WORK GROUP IT WOULDN'T JUST
HAVE TO BE, YOU KNOW, FOCUSED
ON THE SUB MINIMUM WAGE
RESOLUTION, FINDING OUT MORE IN
GENERAL ABOUT HOW EMPLOYMENT
AND LACK OF EMPLOYMENT IS
AFFECTING OUR COMMUNITY UM, I
THINK IS IMPORTANT FOR US.
>> YEAH, I WOULD AGREE.
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE, YOU HAD A
QUESTION.
UH, YEAH.
THANK YOU.
I GUESS I WILL ECHO I THINK A
BIT OF WHAT COMMISSIONER
REDCLIFF WAS SAYING IS THAT
THIS IS THIS IS PART OF THAT
EMPLOYMENT ISSUE ALL AROUND AND
REALLY WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
SUB MINIMUM WAGE, IT'S A IT'S A
IT'S A VERY SMALL PIECE OF THE
ENTIRE PICTURE AS AS IT GOES
WITH EMPLOYMENT FOR FOLKS WITH
DISABILITIES.
THIS IS THAT THESE ARE
EMPLOYERS WHO HAVE BEEN GIVEN
SPECIFIC PERMISSION THROUGH A
THROUGH A PROCESS FROM THE
GOVERNMENT TO EMPLOY PEOPLE
DISABILITIES AT SOME MINIMUM
WAGE.
SO THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT'S
DONE ACROSS THE BOARD BY WELL
IT COULD BE DONE I GUESS IN
THEORY ACROSS THE BOARD AND
THAT WOULD BE ILLEGAL AS WELL.
BUT IT'S TO END THIS LEGALIZED
PRACTICE OF ENDING SUB MINIMUM
WAGE FOR EMPLOYERS AND PUSHING
EMPLOYERS ALL EMPLOYERS TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEY ARE CREATING
EQUITABLE SPACES FOR EMPLOYMENT
OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
AND SO REALLY THIS IS I THINK I
THINK THIS WOULD BE A GREAT
TOPIC FOR A SUBGROUP.
I THINK EMPLOYMENT WOULD BE A
GREAT TOPIC FOR A SUBGROUP AS
WELL.
BUT I GUESS I WOULD URGE US I
THINK THIS IS A TOPIC THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT AND I WOULD BE
DEFINITELY IN FAVOR OF OF BEING
PART OF A RESOLUTION TO SUPPORT
THAT.
>> YEAH, I AGREE WITH YOU
THERE, COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE.
I THINK THE WORK GROUP WOULD BE
MOST BENEFICIAL AND YOU KNOW,
EMPLOYMENT IS AGAIN AS YOU
STATED, YOU KNOW, A HUGE ISSUE
AMONG OUR COMMUNITY AND YOU
KNOW, I THINK, YOU KNOW, WE
COULD DEFINITELY DO SOME GOOD
WORK THERE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> YEAH.
AND I HAVE A DRAFT OF SOMETHING
THAT HAS BEEN DRAFTED UP BY THE
AFL CIO ASKING CLERC TO SIGN.
I BASICALLY I THINK THAT WE
HAVE A LOT OF OPPORTUNITY TO TO
GET RESEARCH FROM DIFFERENT
SOURCES AND WE'RE ALL INVOLVED
IN ALL THESE DIFFERENT
DISABILITY ORGANIZATIONS.
SO IF THERE'S NO OTHER
QUESTIONS I GUESS ZAC AND ALEX,
IN TERMS OF NEXT STEPS, WHAT DO
YOU THINK IS IS BEST HERE TO
GET THE WORK STARTED?
YEAH, I MEAN THAT'S A GREAT
QUESTION.
I THINK AS FAR AS THE NEXT
STEPS, YOU KNOW, JUST SETTING A
TIME TO TO MEET AND AND TALK
MORE ABOUT THIS, YOU KNOW, YOU
CAN BEGIN THE PROCESS EASIER
AND I'M SORRY I JUST WANT TO
MAKE SURE EVERYONE HAS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK.
>> LAURA, DID YOU HAVE YOUR
HAND UP?
>> DID I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK
TO THE CONTRACTORS OR THE CITY
AND WHAT KNOWLEDGE WE HAVE
OF THEM THAT'S ACTUALLY ONE
OF THE FIRST ISSUES THAT I
BROUGHT UP WHEN I STARTED HERE
THAT WE DON'T COLLECT A LOT
OF DEMOGRAPHICS.
IT IS SELF REPORTED RIGHT NOW
IF INDIVIDUALS WANT TO I HAVE
UPDATED SOME OF OUR LANGUAGE TO
REQUEST SELF REPORTING A LOT
MORE FIRMLY WHEN WORKING WITH A
CITY OR APPLYING TO WORK WITH
THE CITY BECAUSE TO ME IT'S
EVERYONE THAT APPLIES AND THEN
WHO GETS SELECTED THAT WE NEED
TO BE TRACKING AND THE BIGGEST
ISSUE WITH ALL OF THAT IS WE
HAVE ONE PERSON WHO DOES ALL
THE ELEMENTS OF EVERYTHING FOR
THE CITY AND THEY WOULD REALLY
NEED A LOT OF HELP TO MAKE
CERTAIN THE PROCESS RUN
SMOOTHLY.
BUT IT IS SOMETHING WE'RE
WORKING ON BEHIND THE SCENES.
GOOD TO KNOW I THANKS FOR
ANSWERING THAT AND I KNOW IT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS LOOKING AT TO
MISS THE TRAFFIC.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO YEAH.
COUNCIL MEMBER TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION, I THINK THE BEST NEXT
STEPS IS TO INITIATE THIS THIS
WORKING GROUP WITH
COMMISSIONERS THAT ARE
INTERESTED.
YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW
NECESSARILY I MEAN IS IT IS IT
A SIMPLE AS YOU KNOW, JUST
SENDING THOSE INTERESTED
PARTIES A CALENDAR INVITE AND
THEN WE WE YOU KNOW, KIND BEGIN
YOU KNOW I MEAN I'D BE HAPPY TO
JUMP ON A CALL AND SORT
OF BEGIN.
>> YEAH.
WHAT I MEAN I THINK WHAT I CAN
DO IS I CAN DRAFT SOMETHING ON
AND THEN HAVE THE ATTORNEYS
LOOK AT IT.
HAVE YOU ALL LOOK AT IT.
SO THAT'S WHERE WE START HERE
AND THEN YOU CAN ADD TO IT.
>> YEP.
OK, AND I'M NOT AIMING TO DO
THIS UNTIL BECAUSE THERE'S
OTHER ISSUES ON THE AGENDA
PROBABLY MID-MAY SO JUST KNOW
THAT AS WELL.
BUT I'M GOING TO CONTINUE TO
UPDATE YOU ALL AS I AS I DO
RESEARCH AND I AND I WORK ON
THIS.
SO THEN WE ACTUALLY HAVE
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN GO OVER
AND YOU ALL CAN ADD TO YOUR
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU FOR THAT VICE CHAIR
KEELER HAS TO STAND UP.
ALL RIGHT.
VICE CHAIRMAN.
>> YES, UNFORTUNATELY I HAVE A
COUPLE OF THINGS TO DO SO I
HAVE TO LEAVE THE MEETING BUT
FOR THE ANNOUNCEMENT SECTION I
FORGOT TO MENTION THAT THERE IS
A TRANSPORTATION MEETING WHICH
I GOT A BIT AT AT 7:00.
I'VE GOT TO DO A FEW THINGS
BEFORE THEN AND IT CAN BE SEEN
ON OR CHANNEL SIX ON THE CABLE
AND WITH THAT I HAVE TO LEAVE.
UNFORTUNATELY.
NO PROBLEM, LARRY.
I WAS JUST GOING TO ASK IF
THERE WERE ANY OTHER ADDITIONAL
ANNOUNCEMENTS SO THANK YOU FOR
THAT TIME TO THANKS, LARRY.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT ARE THERE
ANY OTHER ADDITIONAL
ANNOUNCEMENTS BEFORE WE ADJOURN
?
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, IT IS NOW SIX TO ONE SO I
WILL CALL OUR ADJOURNMENT FOR
THIS COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES MEETING.
I'D LIKE TO THANK OUR
COMMISSION THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR, THE COMMUNITY TELEVISION
NETWORK AND ALL INVOLVED WITH
MAKING SURE THAT OUR COMMISSION
AS WELL AS ALL COMMISSIONERS
CONTINUE TO DO GREAT THINGS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH EVERYONE
AND WE WILL BE IN TOUCH.
>> SEE YOU NEXT MONTH